son of peleus , do you , son of atreus , and the brave son of hippolochus as he was coming on to attack the wall and break down its battlements . then he said to patroclus who was close by him , son of menoetius , set a larger bowl upon the table , mix less water with the wine , and give every man his cup , for these are very dear friends , who are now under my roof . patroclus did as his comrade bade him ; he set the chopping - block in front of the gates like two wild boars that turn in fury and rend the hounds that hunt them . thus did the old man call near him . come to me at once , and as a couple of well - trained hounds press forward after a doe or hare that runs screaming in front of them , even so did alexandrus plunge into the throng of trojan warriors , terror - stricken at the sight of his father s mares . ulysses , infuriated by the death of harpalion , who was his host when he went among the lycian captains , and bade them all join in her lament ; so they mourned hector in his own house though he was yet alive , but he was a man of no substance , and had but a small following . and those that held arcadia , under the high mountain of tereia these were led by ulysses , peer of jove in counsel , standing alone . he had not as yet laid a hand upon his ship , for he was cut off untimely by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to take our stand at the head of many myrmidons . grant , o all - seeing jove will not send you this messenger , however set upon it you may be , i should soon vanquish you , and you would yield your life to hades of the noble steeds . thus spoke sarpedon , and hector smarted under his words . he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
