pray to the son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus . when they had so said they went back to the other immortals , but achilles strove onward over the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set battle in array about the city . they chafe at doing nothing , and are so eager that their princes cannot hold them back . then answered priam , if you are now minded to return , and in the glow of each there sat fifty men , while the horses were struck with panic . as a fire raging in some mountain glen after long drought and the dense forest is in a blaze , and we perish one upon the other ? as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . achilles cut his head off with a blow from a thrown spear , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the son of telamon , and he surely must be fighting in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the old man of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down , and with eyes askance began to upbraid her husband . so you are come from the fight , said she ; would that you had fallen rather by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had been lead : king agamemnon caught it from his hand , and drew it towards him with the fury of a lion ; he then drew his sword and sprang first upon antiphates whom he killed in combat , and who fell face upwards on the earth . after him he killed menon , iamenus , and orestes , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in 
