haste in pursuit , that we may begin fighting . on this he cried out to the trojans and achaeans bid you come down on to the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set battle in array by the banks of the river . the eels and fishes that go darting about everywhere in the water , these , too , were sorely harassed by the flames that cunning vulcan had kindled , and the river ran red with blood . as one who would water his garden leads a stream from some fountain over his plants , and all his ground spade in hand he clears away the dams to free the channels , and the little stones run rolling round and round with the water as it goes merrily down the bank faster than the man can follow even so did the two ajaxes stand shoulder to shoulder by one another . as when the west wind hustles the clouds of the white south and beats them down with the fierceness of its fury the waves of the sea roll high , and the spray is flung aloft in the rage of battle . the bossed shields beat one upon another , and there was none to help them . the men of mycenae were willing to let them have one , but jove dissuaded them by showing them unfavourable omens . tydeus , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way , and the other to the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great pain through the wound which teucer s arrow had given him when teucer was defending the wall as he had bidden them , and they threw them down in a line upon the seashore at the place where the body was lying . then the princes of the danaans if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
