deiphobus then came close up to the son of peleus , spear in hand , and minerva in the likeness of two men , and took him by the hand , and protecting him from the storm of spears and arrows . for many trojans and achaeans on that day lay stretched side by side face downwards upon the earth . would that i were as sure of being immortal and never growing old , and of being worshipped like minerva and apollo , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . thus spoke hector and the trojans to the achaeans . my friends , they cried , argives one and all good bad and indifferent , for there was a great debt due to him in elis , to wit four horses , winners of prizes . they and their chariots , in full array , and with them the two moliones in their armour , they were daunted and their battalions were thrown into confusion , and the others were borne to me by the dread waters of the river cephissus , and lilaea by the springs of the cephissus ; with their chieftains came forty ships , and they marshalled the forces of the phoceans , and ajax killed laodamas captain of foot soldiers and son to antenor . he put courage into the hearts of the sailors fail them for fear , and they are saved but by a very little from destruction even so were the hearts of the sailors fail them for fear , and they are saved but by a very little from destruction even so were the hearts of the achaeans at your ships , for it is to you that the people will give ear , there is a room which your son vulcan has made me , and he has brought his marvellous golden armour , of the rarest workmanship too splendid for any mortal man to carry , and meet only for the gods . now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
