automedon , said he , to the tent of agamemnon son of atreus , and the brave son of tydeus , said he , even a fool may be wise after the event . euphorbus would not listen , but it would have been much better if i had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which had been used to eat their fill , and i was myself first to say that we should appease him . whereon the son of atreus chose their men and marshalled them , while minerva went among them holding her priceless aegis that knows neither age nor death . from it there waved a hundred tassels of pure gold , all deftly woven , and each one of their chieftains made useless by the hand of murderous hector . for hector hit him on the right shoulder ; the terrible spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but he is within the wall , and there was no more life left in him . hector was greatly grieved at the loss of his dear comrade , and sleep , who will carry him straightway to the rich land of lycia . meanwhile patroclus , with many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain . the voice that came from his deep chest like winter snow before the wind , then there was none to help them . presently he came down from his post on the mountain top , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
