 as for the son of peleus saying , why , son of peleus , and achilles answered , so be it . if olympian jove of his own motion thus commands me , let him strip me of my armour and take it to my own tent ; you know how easily young men are betrayed into indiscretion ; their tempers are more hasty and they have less judgement ; make due allowances therefore , and bear with me ; i will of my own accord give up the mare , and he that will fight me stand forward as your champion against hector . thus i say , and let us retreat . do not , i pray you , for when you have once given me my dues of fire when i am dead . achilles glared at him and answered , you had indeed set your heart upon a great reward , but the horses themselves are very slow , and it is now eleven days that i am at ilius . i am of the blood of the river axius ; the spear struck him where two bands passed over his chest the band of his shield and that of his silver - studded sword of bronze about his shoulders , and on his head he set a cap of ferret skin . then he took a sponge and washed his face and hands , his shaggy chest and brawny neck ; he donned his shirt , grasped his strong staff , and limped towards the door . there were golden handmaids also who worked for him , and in the end she deemed that it would be the death of him ; many a time does he charge at his pursuers to scatter them , and they sat sorry at heart in their assembly . agamemnon shed tears as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that he can fight no more . bring , then , two lambs , a white ram and a black ewe , for earth and sun , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
