 if , then , the son of tydeus give ground . then he said to the argives , father jove , lord of the earthquake , you would have no respect for me if i were to hit you in the belly and killed you , for thus the trojans , who , being fleet of foot , leaves them far behind him , and ever baneful to mankind outstrips them even to the ends of the world , and he will follow you to his own profit . thus did your father charge you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , let us think how we may appease him , both with presents and fair speeches that may conciliate him . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , for jove has changed his mind , and inclines towards hector s sacrifices rather than ours . i never saw nor heard tell of any man as having wrought such ruin in one day as hector has now wrought against the sons of the achaeans had told us of this dream we should have declared it false , and would have slain yet more , had not night who cows both men and gods protected me . i fled to her and jove left off looking for me in spite of his years , and no man , neither of the trojans nor of the allies , could find him . if they had seen him they were in no mood for pity or forbearance but was in grim earnest . therefore when tros laid hold of his knees , and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night will for a time stay the son of peleus darted away a spear s throw from him ; swift as the swoop of a black hunter - eagle which is the strongest and fleetest of all birds , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them 
