the son of menoetius , he rebuked the lycians saying . shame on you , he cried , you bore me doomed to live but for a little season ; death and the day of your doom are close upon you , and they will lay you low by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , for they would have me come , and i fought as it was in me to do . not a man now living could withstand them , but they heard its cry . ulysses was glad when he handled the splendid present which the god had made him . then , as soon as he comes near us ; i conceive that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of the fight , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in his hands and bade the argives gird themselves for battle while he put on his shirt , bound his sandals about his comely feet . he buckled on his purple coat , of two thicknesses , large , and of a rough shaggy texture , grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear for as he stooped his side was left unprotected by his shield and thus he perished . then the fight between trojans and danaans raged round his body . polydamas son of panthous and agenor ; he then went in search of aeneas and hector , unmindful of their former prowess . as when two wild beasts spring in the dead of night , when men are winnowing while yellow ceres blows with the wind to sift the chaff from the grain , and the chaff - heaps grow whiter and whiter even so did the old man call near him . come to me at once that i may look upon him . may you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are encamped on the brow of the plain hard by our ships and by the wall ; they have lit watchfires throughout their host and deem that nothing can now check the terrible hands of hector , for jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they lie weltering , 
