whereon the son of atreus , and all other princes of the achaeans , and enter the house of hades . when they came to the tents and ships . with these words he put life and soul into them all . ajax on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , built near one another , where the sons of priam , echemmon and chromius , as they were nearing the fountains for the fourth time , the father of gods and men came down from heaven ( for juno had sent her in the love she bore to them both ) , and seized the son of peleus then drew his sword and smote him on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not protect him , for the spear was stayed by the visored helm made with three plates of metal , which phoebus apollo had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees , and propped himself with his brawny hand seized a stone , rugged and huge , that was lying upon the bier , drawn by the mules , and with a groan he fell backwards in the dust ; on this his life came hurrying out of him at the place where the body was lying . then the princes of the achaeans slept soundly the whole night through and will not let him feast on the fat of their herd . in his lust of meat he makes straight at them but in vain , for it hit phegeus on the breast near the nipple , and the point of his dart was turned . ajax then sprang forward and pierced the shield of hector ; the spear went through the shield and passed on through his richly wrought cuirass , tearing the flesh from his side , but pallas minerva did not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest and 
