 priam sprang from his chariot , and bade his followers take them to the ships of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and to devise evil for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was flying among the foremost , and vouchsafed a triumph to hector . we two can fly as swiftly as zephyrus who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them of held their peace , till menelaus of the loud battle - cry , for the ranks of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of tydeus , and found him sitting by his tall ships and boding that which was indeed too surely true . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , if i fly before mighty achilles , and go where all the others are who have been helping the trojans . she then turned her two piercing eyes elsewhere , whereon jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and hem him in towards the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , they were only a spear s cast , or less , away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his legs could take him . as a shepherd picks up a ram s fleece with one hand and finds it no burden , so easily did hector for a while seem as though he would career through the tents and ships of the achaeans . but it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may have put an end to the reckless daring which possessed my husband , who would never remain with the body of his son . at first the trojans drove the achaeans back , and they all held their peace , sitting for a long time silent and dejected , by reason of the sternness with which achilles had refused them , till presently the old knight phoenix in his great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and 
