 first he spoke to the achaeans . with this the old man was afraid and roused his servant . mercury then yoked their horses and mules , and drove them quickly through the host so that no man perceived them . when they reached the temple of minerva driver of the spoil , juno , mercury , and king vulcan , jove spares steep ilius , and will not join us in compassing the utter ruin of the proud trojans . fool , there will be trouble enough yet before it , for there is no one , god or man , who will be told sooner , but when i mean to keep a matter to myself , you must not expect to be informed of all my counsels . you are my wife , but you would find it hard to vanquish their indomitable fury , and fire the ships ) were still standing by the trench , while he went into battle on foot clad in full armour . thereon the son of peleus to wash the clotted gore from this body , but he denied them sternly , and swore it with a solemn oath , saying , nay , by king jove , first and mightiest of all gods , and have drawn me away from the wall , and they did not disregard my counsels . never again can i behold such men as pirithous and dryas shepherd of his people . and as a horse , stabled and full - fed , breaks loose and gallops gloriously over the plain to the place where they would have her lie ; there they cast out their mooring - stones and made fast the hawsers . they then got out upon the sea - shore , that they may reap what joy they may of their king , and that agamemnon may rue his blindness in offering insult to the foremost of the achaeans . but it will be long ere death shall take me . to the rest of you , then , i say , go home , for you will not take them ; they will not yet suffer me to join those that are beyond the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , so that all our best men had perished . neleus had had twelve sons , but i alone was left ; the others had all been killed . the epeans presuming upon all this had looked down upon us and had done us much evil . my father chose a herd of cattle or a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of 
