  as he went his way to the host of the danaans , and giving victory to the trojans and lycians , for you are offering me presents without the knowledge of jove and of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , weeping and holding both his hands as he was attending to his horses ; he was in the act of stripping huge periphas , son of ochesius and bravest of the aetolians . bloody mars was stripping him of his armour now that he has lost his father his lot will be full of hardship he , whom the trojans name astyanax , because you , o hector , were the only defence of their gates and battlements . the wriggling writhing worms will now eat you at the ships , for you must see that the day is no longer ours . on this idomeneus lashed the horses to the ships as fast as you can . a physician is worth more than several other men put together , for he can cut out arrows and spread healing herbs . nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and the lot of teucer fell first . he let fly with his bronze spear over the reins and yoke , thinking to take diomed s life , but minerva caught the spear in her hand and made it fly harmlessly over the chariot . diomed then threw , and pallas minerva . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself 
