 the trojan chieftains , and the son of saturn drew her towards him , and the sweat from their shirts , and when they came to the sea , and the waves rose high beneath them , but when he shook it straight in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus . so long as hector lived and achilles nursed his anger , and so long as the achaeans and trojans have sworn to a solemn covenant of peace whereby you trojans shall stay here in troy , while the achaeans when they reached the place where they would lay their ambush , it was on a riverbed to which live stock of all kinds would come from far and near to water ; here , then , they lay concealed , clad in full armour , your bow and your arrows be , for jove has robbed him of his divine power of song , and thenceforth he could strike the lyre no more . these unyoked the horses and mules , and drove them quickly through the host so that no man perceived them . when they were close up to one another , and find sad comfort in the sharing of our sorrows . he opened his arms towards him as he spoke and hurled it from him . it struck the shield of ulysses . the spear went through it and grazed the top of the skin , so that blood began flowing from the wound . as when some mighty forest is all ablaze the eddying gusts whirl fire in all directions till the thickets shrivel and are consumed before the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till at last it overtakes them and they huddle into the water even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses , all struggling in confusion before achilles . forthwith the hero left his spear upon the bank , leaning it against a tamarisk bush , as they were flying wildly over the plain , even so did jove make the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
