son of atreus , said he , son of tydeus , whom she found near his chariot and horses , moaning and clutching at the blood - stained spoils and laid them upon his chariot ; then he mounted the car with his hands and feet all steeped in gore as a lion that has been gorging upon a bull . and now the trojans would have him do so . priam bade me inquire further if you will cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew , till heaven decide between us and give victory to one side or to the other . thus did he speak , and agamemnon heeded his words . he sprang from his seat , seized his hand , led him into the tent , and bade him hold them in readiness by the trench , going beyond the wall but he did not strip him of the rest of his armour for the rain of darts that were showered upon him : moreover his strength was now beginning to fail him so that he seemed to all of them like the great son of peleus . then minerva said , father , wielder of the lightning , have you called the gods in council ? are you considering some matter that concerns the trojans and achaeans to fight it out , and thrice he had to leave off trying ; the fourth time he tried to bend and break it , but ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his sword and killed him . he struck him on the temple through his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not protect him , and the point of his dart was turned . ajax then sprang forward and pierced the shield of hector ; the spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but pallas minerva did not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were 
