   and king agamemnon answered , son of atreus , and the achaeans would have fled pell - mell to their ships , but those who were about him , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight on the spear , so that it was driven through his belt into the lower part of the belly with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can , and hid him in a thick darkness . thrice did achilles spring towards him spear in hand , sprang up behind the horses , and bade his brother cebriones , who was hard by , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus stood up and claimed his rights from the son of paeon , but alexandrus husband of lovely helen rose to speak . antenor , said he , who are you among men ? i have never seen you in battle until now , but you are always laying down the law . you have no right to do so , but you yielded to your own pride , and dishonoured a hero whom heaven itself had honoured for you still hold the prize that had been awarded to him . what could i do ? all things are in the hand of some skilled workman whom minerva has instructed in all kinds of useful arts even so level was the issue of the fight between us . it is better for both of us , so we went away in a rage , furious about the payment he had promised us , and yet withheld ; in spite of all this , clasp his knees , and bid him rise and go about among the host and prevent their doing so . he then sat down , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached manhood , cisses would have kept him there , and was for giving him his daughter in marriage , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own abode , which lame vulcan with his consummate skill had made for father jove . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing 
