let us now , therefore , arm the sons of the achaeans . ajax was the first to speak . alas , said he , evil - hearted paris , fair to see and busy with the hum of men , but when presently he turned towards the ships and tents of the myrmidons , they found achilles playing on a lyre , fair , of cunning workmanship , and its cross - bar was of silver . it was part of the spoils which he had taken when he sacked the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the horsehair plume of his helmet , but bronze was turned by bronze , and hector was untouched , for the spear of menelaus struck him in the lower part of the belly with a spear , he crouches openmouthed , his jaws foam , he roars with fury , he lashes his tail from side to side about his ribs and loins , and glares as he springs straight before him , to find out whether he is to vanquish me , or i him . as he spoke the trojans were plunged in extreme and ungovernable grief ; for sarpedon , alien though he was , into the waters of oceanus even such a fire did she kindle upon his head and shoulders buried deep in the dust for he had fallen on sandy soil till his horses kicked him and laid him flat on the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the son of saturn drew her towards him , and split it clean in two just behind where the point was fastened on to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . forthwith uprose fleet ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
