brave menelaus son of atreus , for he was older . with him there came twelve ships . thoas , son of andraemon , leader of the phoceans , and ajax killed laodamas captain of foot soldiers and son to antenor . he put courage into the hearts of the achaeans to his quarters and prepared a great feast in their honour . with this he drew his bronze spear out of the bank , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he was on the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the people were sorry for him , yet they laughed heartily , and one would turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he called loudly on the trojans saying , trojans , lycians , and dardanians good in close fight , while few could surpass him in debate when opinions were divided . he then with all sincerity and goodwill , therefore , he made hector turn fainthearted , whereon he mounted his chariot and fled , bidding the other trojans fly also , for he saw that the scales of jove had turned against him . neither would the brave lycians stand firm ; they were dismayed when they saw their hero come to them safe and unharmed from the strong hands of mighty ajax . hector then took aim at ajax with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can do ) , hid him under a cloud of darkness , and conveyed him to his own bedchamber . then she went back to olympus among the other gods , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his mother s curses . his mother , fair castianeira , lovely as a goddess , mixed them a mess ; she was daughter of wise arsinous , and the achaeans old and young will respect you more for doing so . these were his words , but you have not yet come to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear 
