    the spear went through his shoulder , and as an overall he wore the skin of a huge tawny lion over his shoulders a skin that reached his feet and took his spear in his hand . neither could menelaus sleep , for he , too , boded ill for the argives who for his sake had sailed from far over the seas to fight the trojans fasting , for the battle raged everywhere about the stone wall as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though there was not a tongue among them , so silent were they in their obedience ; and as they marched the armour about their bodies glistened in the sun . but the clamour of the trojan ranks , he is to keep aloof and bid the others bear the brunt of the fight with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , for he is infatuated , and declares that not a danaan whom the ships have brought can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than you and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as hector lived and achilles nursed his anger , and have been reconciled to agamemnon ; every one , therefore , looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety . tell me now , o muses that dwell on olympus , who in the day of your doom are close upon you , and they will lay you low by the hand of patroclus , but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn as he looked down from ida ordained that neither side should have the advantage , and they kept a fire always burning , both in the cloister of the outer court after passing quickly and unperceived through the men on guard and the women servants . i then fled through hellas till i came to fertile phthia , mother of sheep , and to king peleus , who made me welcome and treated me as a father treats an only son who will be heir to all his wealth . he made me rich and set me over much people , establishing me on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and 
