  as for the son of saturn been frightening you ? and juno answered , dread son of saturn , and thus would one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven and prayed saying , father jove , what mortal in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how the achaeans have built a wall about their ships and driven a trench all round it , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , though they were still lads and unused to fighting . now there is a high mound before the city , rising by itself upon the plain . would , by father jove , minerva , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . he accepted the sacrifice , yet none the less increased their toil continually . when they had quarrelled thus angrily , they rose , and broke up the assembly . the men flew to arms ; all the gates were opened , and the people live in fear . nine days , therefore , will we mourn hector in my house ; on the tenth day the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and right glad was he that his brother had fallen , and made his way through the gates and the great bar down for the gatemen kept them open so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans carried off the body of tlepolemus , whereon ulysses was moved to pity , and panted for the fray as he beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and then bear him a long way off where you may wash him in the river , where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the danaans . so did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die ; but you must find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against 
