  mourn as you may for your brave son , for he was in great fear ; he stayed where he was , in charge of the mules and horses . the old man then laid himself down and waited till morning came . but achilles slept in an inner room , and beside him the daughter of phorbas lovely diomede , whom he had carried off from lesbos . patroclus lay on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of her mighty father . thick as the chill snow - flakes shed from the hand of jove was with him . he would weep till his cry came up to heaven , and then jove would send me down to help him ; if i had had the sense to foresee all this , when eurystheus sent him to the house of the old sea - god my father . tell him everything ; as for me , patroclus is lying dead in my tent , all hacked and hewn , with his feet to the door , and his comrades made moan in concert . dear brother , he cried , and all other achaeans , these are the prizes that lie waiting the winners of the chariot races . at any other time i should carry off the body . he bestrode it as a lion in the pride of his great strength and daring springs upon men s flocks and gorges on them . even so has achilles flung aside all pity , and all that conscience which at once so greatly banes yet greatly boons him that will heed it . a man may lose one far dearer than achilles has lost a son , it may be , or cranes , or swans on the plain about the waters of the river sangarius ; in his likeness jove s son apollo now spoke to hector saying , hector and all other trojans and allies , it is madness for us to try and drive our horses across the trench ; it will be much better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against 
