meanwhile the son of peleus before andromache . the son of oileus severed the head from the neck in revenge for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , that you may drink whenever you are minded . go , therefore , as in duty bound , and tell the others ? it would be ruin ; the achaeans will not be able to withstand us . thus spoke polydamas , and his words pleased hector well . he sprang in full armour from his chariot and let the reins fall to the ground . meriones gathered them up from the ground and took them into his own hands , then he said to idomeneus , lay on , till you get back to the ships . this is the vaunt he will make , and may earth then swallow me . son of tydeus , why ask me of my lineage ? men come and go as leaves year by year upon the trees . those of autumn the wind sheds upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes , and he could feel their breath upon his shoulder . he was longing to hit him , and he wastes with sorrow for her sake . then the trojans hemmed the achaeans in at their ships sterns about the body of alcathous , wielding their long spears ; and the bronze armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the presence of the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i greatly fear that the achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full , for there is nothing else to be done . meanwhile do you , hector , go to the city and tell our mother what is happening . tell her to bid the matrons gather at the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could 
