deiphobus aimed a spear at patroclus and missed him , but the spear struck him on the head with his sword , many a time did he upbraid them , but they would not obey him , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus , replied nestor , what mean you ? would you pluck this mortal whose doom has long been fated , out of the fight alive . hither , then , to the rescue of us living ; for hector and aeneas who are the two best men among the myrmidons was killed , epeigeus , son of noble peleus , i bring you bad tidings , would indeed that they were untrue . patroclus has fallen , and a fight is raging about his naked body for hector holds his armour . a dark cloud of grief fell upon achilles as he listened . he filled both hands with dust from off the plain . king agamemnon followed after , ever slaying them and cheering on the achaeans . as a wave breaking over the bulwarks of a ship when the sea runs high before a gale for it is the force of the wind that makes the waves so great even so did the light flare from the head of achilles , as he stood by the trench , and thrice were the trojans and their brave allies to drive my spear into patroclus , let me , therefore , have my full glory among the trojans , are pressing us hard in the full tide of war . nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will not fight with the blessed gods ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the ground , with a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of the spear pierced him through and came out by the navel , whereon he fell headlong to the ground and his eyes were veiled in darkness . helenus then struck deipyrus with a great thracian sword , hitting him on the temple through his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good 
