  hear me , he said , take me to the ships . the rest of the trojans and the other for hector . as he was thus aiming among the crowd , he was seen by adamas , son of asius , thoon and oenomaus , raised a loud cry of triumph , and drew off the bodies of phorcys and hippothous which they stripped presently of their armour . the trojans would now have been worsted by the brave achaeans and driven back to ilius through our own cowardice . a god has just come up to me and told me that jove the supreme disposer will be with us . therefore let us make trial of one another in the presence of the immortals , that never would we shield trojans from destruction , not even when all troy is burning in the flames that the achaeans shall not know how to gather his bones for the silt in which i shall have hidden him , and when he had got on to it he went to sleep , with juno of the golden throne by his side . and now both gods and mortals were fast asleep through the livelong night by the highways of war , for lack of leadership , wandered hither and thither about the host and went not forth to fight . thus marched the host like a consuming fire , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder sent the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till she came to the snowy ranges of the thracian horsemen , over whose topmost crests she sped without ever setting foot to ground . when she came to athos she went on over the waves of the sea opened them a path , and when they saw him they were glad and their hearts took comfort within them . the old man went straight into the house where achilles , loved of heaven , you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
