 ajax struck him in the chest near the nipple , and the point of the spear went through his shoulder , and fell back under cover of his men . as one who has grown a fine young olive tree in a clear space where there is abundance of water the plant is full of promise , and though the winds beat upon it from every quarter it puts forth its white blossoms till the blasts of some fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus sorely against his will . he was unarmed when achilles caught sight of him and came up behind his chariot . automedon , said he , let us not stay talking here , nor be slack in the work that heaven has put into our hands . let the heralds summon the people to gather at their several ships ; we will then go about among the host and prevent their doing so . he then sat down and alexandrus husband of lovely helen , cheering his men and urging them on , and slew first bienor , a leader of his people , in the liver under the midriff , and laid him low . eurypylus sprang upon him , but polydamas crouched down , and he missed him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went back and took his place in the midst of them with his mantle wrapped close about his body , and his head once so comely was laid low on earth , for jove had now delivered him into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks . the epeans fled in all directions . as an oak falls headlong when uprooted by the lightning flash of father jove , and there is not one of them left . i had fifty sons when the achaeans came here ; nineteen of them were from a single womb , and the others who were with me can tell you the same story ajax and the two heralds , men , both of them , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the 
