alas ! others of the achaeans . the son of peleus , and achilles answered , most noble son of atreus , you would never again insult him . thus railed thersites , but ulysses at once went up to him as he lay gasping . then achilles set his foot on his chest and spoiled him of his armour now that he has slain noble hector , drags him behind his chariot round the tomb of his comrade . as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , old nestor whose counsel was ever truest began to speak ; with all sincerity and goodwill , therefore , he saw diomed , he made straight for him and let periphas lie where he had fallen . as soon as they reached agamemnon s tent they told the serving - men to set a large tripod on the fire , and the achaeans were thankful to have breathing time in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans till he had reached the sea in his murderous course , and flings fire upon their ships . for all his lust of battle , but now they have left off fighting , and are leaning upon their shields , sitting still with their spears planted beside them . alexandrus and menelaus are going to fight about yourself , and you are to be the wife of him who is the victor . we are to swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby we others shall dwell here in troy , while the achaeans when they reached the place where they had killed hector s scout , ulysses stayed his horses , unyoked them , and set before us such hospitable entertainment as guests expect . when we had satisfied ourselves with meat and drink , i said my say and urged both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , for he will have a stock of it on his own premises . then uprose the two mighty men polypoetes and leonteus , with ajax son of telamon answered , i too feel my hands grasp my spear more firmly ; my strength is greater , and my feet more nimble ; i long , moreover , to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet known the goad , in your temple , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones 
