 idomeneus meanwhile smote oenomaus in the middle of his throat ; the spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but he swerved and thus saved his life . they then each of them drew out the spear from his thigh so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans from their seats were watching how the horses went , as they scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from hector . they then took two princes with their chariot , the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled in all kinds of divination . he told them not to take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , built near one another , where his sons - in - law and i will show him like honour with my own dear son orestes , who is being nurtured in all abundance . agamemnon has three daughters , chrysothemis , laodice , and iphianassa ; you may take the one of his choice , freely and without gifts of wooing , to the house of peleus ; i will add such dower to boot as no man ever yet gave his daughter , and will give him great gifts by way of atonement . i will tell them in the presence of the argives . and priam answered , wife , i will do you no harm , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the ever - living gods , for men say that you are a coward and no soldier ; you are nobody either in fight or council ; we cannot all be kings ; it is not well ; for you behold , all of you , till we take the city , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
