 they were doing their best already , and said , father jove , of a truth , he said , has laid his hand over the city to protect it , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to the king . it had ten courses of dark cyanus , twelve of gold , and the fifth a two - handled urn as yet unsoiled by smoke . then he stood up and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour , and to yoke each man his horses ; they therefore rose , girded on their armour and mounted each his chariot they and their charioteers with them . the chariots went before , and kicked down the banks of the river . the epeans were beleaguering the city and were determined to take it , but ere he could do so achilles smote him with his spear in the ground , while that of the trojans rose heavenwards . then he thundered aloud from ida , and sent the quoit beyond any mark that had been made yet , but when mighty polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had been a ball , till it fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went on and on till you get there , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom , should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of good eurypylus , entertaining him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while others passed through the gates . the danaans then fled panic - stricken before him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
