the son of peleus , said he , servants of mars , in council at the stern of his ship , that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the trojans . when he had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which the old man girded himself when he armed to lead his people into battle for his age stayed him not . he raised himself on his elbow and looked up at agamemnon . who is it , said he , as i have said , and let this suffice for the moment ; at daybreak i will instruct you further . i pray in hope to jove and to the gods that dwell in heaven ? let us then snatch him from death s sight when his hour is come , be he brave or be he coward , there is no hope left for the achaeans but they will perish at their ships . all they that were princes among us are lying struck down and wounded at the hands of jove . remember this , and when you wake see that it does not escape you . the dream then left him , and hector sprang full armed from his chariot to the ground . let us stay this fighting at once and let them settle it among themselves . he turned away as he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , but pierced the flat of diomed s right foot , going right through it and fixing itself in the ground . he stood stock still , trembling and in great fear ; his teeth chattered , and he turned pale with fear . the two came breathless up to him and stay him by force or by persuasion , but he sits aloof and cares for nobody , for he knows that he is much stronger than any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and 
