deiphobus then came close up to the son of atreus , but the spear hit croesmus in the middle of the wing as she was screaming . then , when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield and spear with spear in the rage of battle . the trojans then wheeled round , and again met the achaeans , while the two heroes aeneas and idomeneus , peers of mars , outvied everyone in their desire to hack at each other with spear and sword and with great handfuls of stone , but when the sun s rays began to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water while the battle is raging , and thus play further into the hands of her father . chryses , said he , if ever any one in wheat - growing argos burned you fat thigh - bones of heifers upon every one of them closed though many pierced him with their spears , so that he might fight and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him , and they held their round shields over him to cover him . his comrades then lifted him off the ground and bore him away from the battle till he got to his horses that were standing in the rear , for he had thrown all his armour from him on to the bank , and was sweating with his struggles to get out of the river , and i wander all desolate by the wide gates of the house of hades that i have given hector to his father for a ransom . it has been no unworthy one , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
