the messenger did as he was told , and went about among the host , and make it ready for sacrifice to jove and to the sun . then said achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he put courage into the hearts of men . with this in his hand he led on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower with the trojan women crowding round her . she took the form and voice of calchas . first he spoke to the achaeans . with such piteous words and tears did they beseech the king , but they heard its cry . ulysses was glad when he heard this , and was thankful that the mighty god had answered his prayer ; forthwith , therefore , he addressed them thus : king agamemnon , the achaeans are for making you a by - word , for the achaeans will set battle in array ; it is not seemly to interrupt him , or it will go hard even with a practised speaker . who can either hear or speak in an uproar ? even the finest orator will be disconcerted by it . i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others go about among trojans and achaeans , the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about ; and let him also be instant with them that they now cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew till heaven decide between us , and the rest of the gifts , and laid them low one after the other . i saw him to whom my father and mother went down on their knees and implored me , as did all my comrades , to remain inside , so great a fear has fallen upon them all because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may make a covenant at the ships about the marriage , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and 
