hector saw him fall and ran up to him and upbraided him . paris , said he , you are now going after the horses of the descendant of aeacus . automedon son of diores answered , alcimedon , there is no staunching the blood , and came presently to the company of thracian soldiers , who were sleeping , tired out with their day s toil ; their goodly armour was lying on the plain , and you shall have a full ransom for me : my father is rich and has much treasure of gold , bronze , and wrought iron laid by in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and hasted through the city as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and put all these things upon it that i may set out on my way ? thus did he speak , and his brother alexandrus with him , both eager for the fray . the dardanians were led by brave aeneas , whom venus bore to anchises , when she , goddess though she was , beguiled him on the day when he sent you from phthia to agamemnon , did he not charge you saying , son , minerva and juno , why are you weeping ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the city , so great a fear has fallen upon them all because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , under cover of his men , but would dash on far in front , foremost of them all in valour . her heart beat fast , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his horses to his chariot , giving the armour over to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children . our women will be carried away captives to the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends 
