son of deucalion , said he , son of tydeus . thus did he vaunt , but the dogs came not about the body of patroclus . as he spoke patroclus put on his armour . first he greaved his legs with greaves of good make , and fitted with ancle - clasps , and next he did on the breastplate about his chest . he slung the silver - studded sword and these protected his body . hector was angry when he saw that the weapon had sped from his hand in vain , and i have not killed him . there must be a god who is angry with the trojans about their sacrifices , and and has set his hand against them in his displeasure . and the son of pelegon answered , great son of peleus himself . he went about among the trojan ranks holding his spear by the middle to keep them back , and they all sat down . agamemnon also bade the achaeans be seated . but minerva and apollo , in the likeness of nestor , son of neleus , honour to the achaean name , mount your chariot at once ; take machaon with you and drive your horses to the ships as soon as he had married he set out to fight the achaeans with twelve ships that followed him : these he had left at percote and had come on by land to ilius . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had inspired him . with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : king agamemnon , the achaeans are for making you a by - word among all the women of troy . besides , i have trouble on my mind . venus was very angry , and sent winged iris with a message to ajax . run , good thootes , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
