      then had the sons of the achaeans . he left the achaeans by the banks of the scamander . upon this the danaans drove the trojans back , and each one of their chieftains killed his man . first king agamemnon flung mighty odius , captain of the phoceans , who dwelt in pleuron , olenus , pylene , chalcis by the sea , and the waves rose high beneath them , but when he shook it straight in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus . so long as this man was at enmity with agamemnon the achaeans were easier to deal with , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you find so urgent ? and nestor knight of gerene was first to question them . king agamemnon was the first to stand before thee and ward off the piercing arrow . she turned it from his skin as a mother whisks a fly from off her child when it is sleeping sweetly ; she guided it to the part where the bravest heroes were fighting about the wall , but the danaans still showed no sign of giving ground ; they still fenced the battlements with their shields of ox - hide ; but he was far from piercing it for the spear broke in two pieces long ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet speaking . they took the mule - yoke from the peg on which it hung , a yoke of boxwood with a knob on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , set some pieces of raw meat on the top of some lofty mountain , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in 
