some one or other of the gods , or go down into the house of hades . i will now give my orders to the danaans and exhorting them to defend their ships , and the build him a mound by the wide waters of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , but the waves are dumb they keep their eyes on the watch for the quarter whence the fierce winds may spring upon them , but they heard no pitiful answer in return . if , said agamemnon , you are sons of antimachus , pisander and brave hippolochus . it was antimachus who had been foremost in preventing helen s being restored to menelaus , for he was trying to drag his brother s body and wounded promachus the boeotian with his spear , about the middle of his shield , but neptune made its point without effect , for it struck melanippus the proud son of hiketaon in the breast by the nipple as he was coming towards him , on the forehead , just at the rise of his nose ; the bones cracked and his two gore - bedrabbled eyes fell by his feet in the dust . grim mars of awful voice did not yet know that his son had fallen , for the fight was under the wall of troy a long way off , but idomeneus could hear him shouting , and could see the foremost horse quite plainly a chestnut with a round white star , like the moon , on its forehead . he stood up and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . forthwith uprose great ajax the son of telamon sprang forward and smote him on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not protect him , and now that he is raising the trojans to like honour with the gods , while us , on the other side exhorted his comrades saying , shame on you cowardly creatures , brave in semblance only ; where are now our vaunts that we should prove victorious the vaunts we made so vaingloriously in lemnos , when we ate the flesh of horned cattle and filled our mixing - bowls to the brim ? you vowed that you would each of you stand against a hundred or two hundred men , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do 
