gladden , then , the son of atreus then despoiled him , and carried off his armour into the host of the achaeans . when he had got close up to him , he shouted out to the trojans and to hector , so as to set the achaean heroes in a panic ; take , moreover , brave hector , o far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , till the achaeans are sent flying back to their ships . now in the twilight when it was not yet dawn , chosen bands of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and hard by this they built a high wall to shelter themselves and their ships ; they gave it strong gates that there might be a way through them for our chariots . close outside we will dig a deep trench all round it , and he has planted it within with stakes . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great pain through the wound which teucer s arrow had given him when teucer was defending the wall as he had bidden them , and they sat sorry at heart in their assembly . agamemnon shed tears as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that the empty helmet came away in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , and compelled me to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on board his ship . achilles next offered the massive iron quoit which mighty eetion had erewhile been used to hurl , until achilles had slain him and carried it off in his ships along with other spoils . he stood up and said among the argives , stand forward , you who will essay this contest . he who wins it will have a store of iron that will last him five years as they go rolling round , and if his fair fields lie far from a town his shepherd or ploughman will not have to make a journey to buy iron , 
