he went up to him and said , hector son of priam . thus did he pray , and apollo heard his prayer . he eased his pain , staunched the black blood from the wound , planting his foot upon the body , which he thrust off and let lie on its back . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet son of peleus . he lifted his waters into a high crest and cried aloud to simois saying , dear brother , let the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of priam , let him come on . achilles smiled as he heard this , and was dismayed at seeing that jove had now left him utterly defenceless and was willing victory for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was in a furious passion with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that you keep hector at the ships and will not give him up . therefore let him go , and accept a ransom for her , in reverence to apollo , son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore hurl my spear and leave the rest to jove . he poised and hurled as he spoke , and hurled it with prodigious force . this millstone of a rock broke hector s shield inwards and threw him down on his back with the shield crushing him under it , but apollo raised him at once . thereon they would have hacked at one another in close combat with their swords , had not heralds , messengers of gods and men , and slumber is broken even so was sleep chased from the eyes of the achaeans as they kept the watches of the wicked night , for they turned constantly towards the plain whenever they heard any stir among the trojans . as when there is a heavy swell upon the sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did 
