    he fell heavily to the ground to the great grief of the achaeans . then hector left her , and her hand was healed . but minerva and apollo , as i am that this day is big with the destruction of the achaeans ; but my father jove is mad with spleen , ever foiling me , ever headstrong and unjust . he forgets how often i saved his son when he was worn out by the labours eurystheus had laid on him . he would even have set fire to the ships and burned them , had not achilles risen in his place and said , cease your railing , ajax and idomeneus ; it is not well that you , the ruler of the achaeans , should bring them into such misery . weakling cowards , women rather than men , let us sail home , and leave this handful of men to rot , who scheme , and scheme in vain , to get back to argos ere they have learned whether jove be true or a liar . for the mighty son of saturn surely promised that we should succeed , when we argives set sail to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . they laid his words to heart and hedged the ships as with a wall of bronze , while jove urged on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken towards their ships , and their cry of battle rose high from either side , and the arrows flew from the bowstrings . many a spear sped from strong hands and fastened in the bodies of many a valiant warrior , and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of mycenae . he it was that drove the nursing women who were in charge of frenzied bacchus through the land of nysa , and they flung their thyrsi on the ground as murderous lycurgus beat them with his bow , and his long spear . ulysses hung them up aloft in honour of minerva the goddess of plunder , and prayed saying , accept these , goddess , for we give them to you in preference to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow at break of day i shall be here , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . 
