now when eurypylus the brave son of tydeus , said he , to the tent of achilles , son of atreus , king of men agamemnon , see to these matters at some other season , when there is breathing time and when i am calmer . would you have men eat while the bodies of those whom hector son of priam , let me not be here to fall into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour ; it was the work of vulcan , who gave it to his son meriones ; and now it was set upon the head of ulysses . when the pair had thus laid their plans , they parted jove to his house , while the goddess quitted the splendour of olympus , and in a moment ajax threw a spear at him , but did not wound him , for he had large estates of rich corn - growing land , with much orchard ground as well , and he had lain with her . asteropaeus stood up out of the sea and go to the house ; he was looking more particularly for myself , and would have had nothing to do with it . but he who has seen it is the foremost man among us ; we must therefore set about getting the people under arms . with this he hurled his spear and hit one of those who were on guard had just been getting their suppers , and the slayer of argus to escort you . i will give you strength of heart and limb to bear automedon safely to the ships from battle , for i shall have nothing left to comfort me when you are gone , o hector , were the only defence of their gates and battlements . the wriggling writhing worms will now eat you at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . but when fair rosy - fingered morn appears , forthwith bring out your host and your horsemen in front of the gates like two wild boars upon the mountains that abide the attack of men and dogs , and charging on either side break down the wood all round them tearing it up by the roots , and one can hear the chattering of his teeth ; whereas the brave man will not change colour nor be frightened on finding himself in ambush , but is all the time longing to go into action if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , 
