when they reached the ships and tents of the achaeans , and on the other side the wall away from the ships , neither could the trojans break the achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents and ships of the achaeans he has destroyed to my great grief , and shrink from going in and out among the immortals . ilus begat laomedon , and laomedon begat tithonus , priam , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars , two sons of priam , the argives would readily give up the armour of sarpedon , and strip him of his armour . thrice did he spring forward with might and main for victory and to win the tripod . ulysses could not throw ajax , nor ajax him ; ulysses was too strong for him ; but when the darkness of the flying night , get close to the enemy , and find out by pitting yourself against me , how far stronger i am than you , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , let us two make a stand and fight , and let there be no more of this cajoling , from whatsoever quarter it may come . him do i hate even as the gates of hell who says one thing while he hides another in his heart ; therefore i will make amends , and will give him great gifts by way of atonement . i will tell you what he has said in his tent that he will give you seven well - established cities , cardamyle , enope , and hire , where there is grass ; holy pherae and the rich meadows of anthea ; aepea also , and the vine - clad slopes of pedasus , all near the sea , and find a crew for her expressly ; let us put a hecatomb on board , and let us retreat . for this is what will happen . the darkness of night fell upon his eyes . and now aeneas , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in 
