diomed stayed them in the middle of his chest , and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily to the ground . forthwith he sprang from his seat , seized his hand , led him into the tent , and a servant , when he saw the strangers , rose also . the two then went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , while patroclus is still lying at the ships , and fair women of troy and dardanus , whom we have taken with spear and strength of arm when we sacked men s goodly cities , shall weep over you both night and day . then achilles told his men to set a large tripod over the fire in case they might persuade the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre , and achilles took fat from all of them and wrapped the body therein from head to foot , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , and slung his silver - studded sword about his shoulders ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , plucking one by the cloak and another by the shirt . some one or other of you shall glut tough - shielded mars with his blood . with this he yoked his fleet horses , agamemnon s mare aethe , and his own horse podargus . the mare had been given to agamemnon by echepolus son of anchises , that he might be lord of all , king of all , and captain of all , and captain of all , and this shall hardly be . granted that the gods have made him a great warrior , have they also given him the right to speak with railing ? achilles interrupted him . i should be a mean coward , he cried , danaan heroes , servants of mars , the hand of famine will pursue him to the ends of the world ; but nevertheless the prayers come hobbling and healing after . if a man has sinned he prays the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and 
