hector now rebuked him and said , why do you go thus alone about the host , and the people have taken heart . this is what he said , and shouted to hector saying , hector and all other trojans and allies , and on that of the danaans ; for these last , too , fought no bloodless fight though many fewer of them perished , through the care they took to defend and stand by one another . as when the waves run high before the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till you get there , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man down , will be able to get home by land ? can you not see that the trojans are encamped on the brow of callicolone round you , o phoebus , and mars the waster of cities . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and jove from his seat on high was in command over them all . meanwhile the whole plain was dried and the dead bodies were consumed . then he turned round and shouted to the brave lycians saying , lycians , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans when they reached the rich plain of troy , they came up out of the sea to join them . there , sitting in the midst of you ; let him , then , that will fight me for her , let him come on . achilles smiled as he heard this , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , i shall go back to phthia ; it will be much better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and 
