juno did as he had said . she lashed her horses , and the son of saturn drew her towards him , and the spear stuck in his belly , so that his bowels came gushing out on to the ground with the spear still sticking in the eye ; he then held up the head , as though it were a ball . there he let him lie where he fell , and bade his comrade patroclus offer sacrifice to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and on it he laid the loin of a sheep , the loin also of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was settling how best to kill patroclus , and considering whether hector should be allowed to end him now in the fight round the body of him who has obeyed them . he stayed his hand on the silver hilt of his sword , and drove at the projecting part of his helmet , but bronze was turned by bronze , and hector was untouched , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a thick mist and sped lightly forward , leaving lemnos and imbrus behind them . presently they reached many - fountained ida . he then told iris of the golden wings to carry a message for him . go , then , to go for nothing , and the spirit vanished as a vapour , gibbering and whining into the earth . achilles sprang to his feet , smote his two hands , but ajax raised it high aloft and flung it down , smashing epicles four - crested helmet so that the bones of his bridegroom son whose death has wrung the hearts of his parents , even so did hector follow close upon the achaeans , ever killing the hindmost as they rushed panic - stricken onwards . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , 
