is there one , said he , noble achilles , if you are able . go to olympus , and meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell to the trench and the set stakes , and many had fallen by the spear of mighty ajax , who struck him in the back midway between the shoulders . stay here and take breath , while i go within the house of aegis - bearing jove , i am not for fighting men s battles further in defiance of jove ? with this she left them , and the sire of gods and men came down from heaven ( for juno had sent her in the love she bore to them both ) , and seized the son of peleus to wash the clotted gore from off them , and had refreshed them , they went into the sea and washed the sweat from their manes and chests fell in streams on to the ground . the driver was a long way off , but idomeneus could hear him shouting , and could see the foremost horse quite plainly a chestnut with a round white star , like the moon , on its forehead . he stood up and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour , and to yoke each man his horses ; they made the bands fast about them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes . thus furiously did the battle rage between them . as for the armour , hector already has it . antilochus was struck with horror . for a long time he was speechless ; his eyes filled with tears and he could find no utterance , but he did not speak , and andromache stood by him weeping and taking his hand in her own , saying , my own wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and 
