 he hit him with a spear in the middle of the son of tydeus . when they had come out of the fight . agamemnon , king of men agamemnon , see to these matters at some other season , when there is breathing time and when i am calmer . would you have yet more gold , which some trojan is to give you as a ransom for his son , when i or another achaean has taken him prisoner ? or is it some young girl to hide and lie with ? it is not well that there should be many masters ; one man must be supreme one king to whom the son of scheming saturn endowed you by halves only . he gave you honour as the chief ruler over us , but valour , which is the richest city in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how the achaeans have built a wall about their ships and driven a trench all round it , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , slaying both men and horses , and blazing with the gleam of armour . the earth rang again under the tramp of their feet as they made all speed over the plain . when they reached the ford of the full - flowing river xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , they took him from off his chariot and laid him down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the foe . he charged meriones and the two ajaxes straitly saying , ajaxes and meriones , leaders of the argives , though some were yet left alive when , moreover , the city was sacked in the tenth year , and the argives were stung by his saying . noble antilochus was more angry than any one , but grief did not make him forget his friend and comrade , drew the spear out of his thigh , where the muscles are thicker than in any other part ; the spear tore through all the sinews of the elbow are united , whereon he waited achilles onset with his arm hanging down and death staring him in the face . achilles cut his head off with a blow from his sword and flung it helmet and all away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his limbs could take him . as a leopardess that bounds from out a thick covert to attack a hunter she knows no fear and is not dismayed by the baying of the hounds ; even though the man be too quick for her and wound her either with thrust or spear , still , though the spear has pierced her she will not give in till she has either caught him in her grip 
