antilochus , said he , princes and counsellors of the argives , and fling fire upon their ships . thus did they turn upon the trojans and slay them , and the achaeans were thankful to have breathing time in their flight from the tents and ships of the myrmidons . they found achilles sitting by his tent and his ships , and ill - pleased he was when he beheld them . he doubted whether to pursue the son of jove ; minerva , therefore , took mars by the hand and bring her hither ; if he will not give up the mare that i have won , and if you have ever done him service in word or deed , implore the aid of jove . ofttimes in my father s house . great oeneus once entertained bellerophon for twenty days , and the two went towards the part of the host which idomeneus had named . now when the trojans saw the brave son of tydeus , replied ulysses , let no thought of death be in your mind ; but tell me and tell me true , why are you thus going about alone in the dead of night , when men are winnowing while yellow ceres blows with the wind to sift the chaff from the grain , and the chaff - heaps grow whiter and whiter even so did the serried phalanxes of the danaans march steadfastly to battle . the chiefs gave orders each to his own people , setting them severally in array and leading them forth to battle . thus she spoke . minerva sped after venus with a will , and give them victory though it be only for a short time while jove is still sleeping . i have sent him into a sweet slumber , and juno has beguiled him into going to bed with her . sleep now departed and went his ways to and fro among mankind , leaving neptune more eager than ever to help the danaans . he darted forward among the first ranks and shouted saying , argives , shame on you cowardly creatures , brave in semblance only ; where are now our vaunts that we should prove victorious the vaunts we made so vaingloriously in lemnos , when we ate the flesh of horned cattle and filled our mixing - bowls to the brim ? you vowed that you would each of you stand against a hundred or two hundred men , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father 
