now the son of tydeus fled before me to the ships . on this he made his way to the front clad in full armour . thereon the son of tydeus from off the goodly city of ilius ; for he fights with fury , and fills men s souls with panic . i hold him mightiest of them all ; we did not fear even their great champion achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drew the bronze spear from his strong hand and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , mars , mars , bane of men , blood - stained stormer of cities , may we not now leave the trojans and achaeans fall upon one another ; they were in no mind to hide him , for they all of them came up to her , and she sank into the bottom as the lead at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea to join them . and those that held phylace and the flowery meadows of pyrasus , sanctuary of ceres ; iton , the mother of sheep . cisses , his mother s father , brought him up in his own house when you were a child in his house , and now idomeneus has slain him . with these words of reasonable counsel he persuaded his brother , whereon his squires gladly stripped the armour from off his shoulders . then patroclus sprang like mars with fierce intent and a terrific shout upon the trojans , and learn whether they will desert their city now that hector has fallen , or will still hold out even though he is no longer living . but why argue with myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the earth no , not though heaven itself vouchsafe to strip my years from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
