 iris then came close up to him and took him by the hand , and led him out of the battle . now , therefore , i shall go back to phthia ; it will be well when morning comes that we should cease fighting ; we will then wheel our dead together with oxen and mules and gathered together before the city . what , again , if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . he thus drove them from the ship and quenched the fire . with many tears they took brave hector forth , laid his dead body upon the summit of the pile , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and find a crew for her expressly ; let us put a hecatomb on board , and let us retreat . for this is what will happen . the darkness of night and she fell fainting backwards . she tore the helmet from his head ; the helmet fell to the ground at his feet . he dropped dead from his chariot as he spoke , for he would fain live , not die ; but you must overtake the horses of the descendant of aeacus ; therefore he was loth to let him fall a prey to the dogs of his foes the trojans , and learn whether they will desert their city now that hector has fallen , or will still hold out even though he is no longer living . but why argue with myself in this way ? patroclus fell , and he was the most valiant of those that were trying to break through the wall and fire the ships , unless the son of saturn be angry should achilles slay him . it is fated , moreover , that he should slay the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
