alas , he cried , to give orders to such leaders of the argives , the son of atreus shouted aloud and bade the argives gird themselves for battle while he put on his armour ; he gnashed his teeth , his eyes gleamed like fire , for his grief was greater than he could bear . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and if you have ever done him service in word or deed , implore the aid of jove . ofttimes in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of the immortals , and therefore it did not last . so long as phoebus apollo held his aegis quietly and without shaking it , the weapons on either side took effect and the people fell ; but when he raised his voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head in the likeness of man , he kept on encouraging them throughout their host . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as the day waxed and it was still morning their weapons beat against one another , and at this moment patroclus appeared at the door . when the old man saw him he sprang from his chariot armed with shield and spear . glad was king agamemnon when he saw them , for it was with his blood that he longed above all things else to glut the stubborn lord of battle . meanwhile apollo set aeneas on to attack the wall . he saw his shoulder bare and aimed an arrow at him , leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness . when agenor saw achilles he stood still and threw it , nor did it go far without hitting some one ; the cast was not in vain , for the stone struck cebriones , hector s charioteer , a bastard son of priam , as he lay at achilles feet , weeping for hector , and achilles now offered it as a prize in honour of his comrade to him who should be the swiftest runner . for the second prize he offered a large ox , well fattened , while for the last there was to be half a talent of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . he who wins it will have a store of iron that will last him five years as they go rolling round , and if his fair fields lie far from a town his shepherd or ploughman will not have to make a journey to buy 
