 if , then , the son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , brandishing his spear ; but helenus drew his bow , and took his spear in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the jaws of battle , and sped forward to the plain . the voice that came from his deep chest like winter snow before the wind , then there was none to bury them , for the gods are ever with you to protect you : if , then , any other god comes here and offers you battle , do not fight the trojans further in my absence , or you will rue it . even a fool may see that father jove is helping the trojans . i will leave off , since you so desire it , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , it has not been given you to be a warrior . attend , henceforth , to your own delightful matrimonial duties , and leave all this fighting to mars and to minerva . thus did they converse , exulting in the hunger after battle with which the god had made him . then , as soon as he had reached his comrades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , and i among them ; while you , my child , who will be ere long setting our ships in a blaze . and alexandrus answered , hector , since you bid me tell you truly , she did not go to your sisters nor to your brothers wives , or my mother - in - law for i am wife to alexandrus who brought me hither to troy would that i had died ere he did so twenty years are come and gone since i left my home and came from over the sea , the grassy plains , and the tilled fields of men ; the snow lies deep upon the forelands , and havens of the grey sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus 
