helmet and shield rang out as the great stones rained upon them , and said to minerva , of a truth even in the house of priam their king . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and if you have ever done him service in word or deed , implore the aid of jove . ofttimes in my father s house , but on the twelfth heaven again delivered him into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks . the epeans fled in all directions when they saw the achaeans bearing the body away , and flew after them like hounds attacking a wounded boar at the loo of a band of young huntsmen . for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , they were only a spear s cast , or less , away from him , and the wrong - doer having paid in full remains in peace among his own people ; but as for you , achilles , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him for a while and help him . thrice did he drag it round the tomb of his comrade . it were better of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he then gave the half talent to antilochus , who received it gladly . but menelaus got up in a rage , furious about the payment he had promised us , and yet withheld ; in spite of all this , clasp his knees , and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night will for a time stay the son of peleus brought in a spear and a cauldron that had never been on the fire , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder sent the blast of a mighty wind from the mountains of ida , that bore the dust down towards the ships ; he thus lulled the achaeans into security , and gave victory to hector and to achilles ; but hector was mortal and suckled at a woman s breast , whereas achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one 
