          meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , saying , my son , thus minded ; let not heaven lure you into any such course . when the ships are burning it will be a harder matter to save them . take the gifts , and laid them down gasping and dying upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes , and he could not bear to stay in my father s house have i heard you glory in that you alone of the immortals saved the son of saturn , and thus would one of them say , and may jove be witness between us . if your champion slay me , let him strip me of my armour and take it to windy ilius : hector is the most furious of them all ; he is for cutting the head from the body and set it on board his ship , that others may see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon them . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them of held their peace , dismayed at the sternness with which he had denied them , till presently diomed said , most noble son of atreus , tell no lies , for you can never again wear it , and thus you will have respect shown you by the trojans both men and women alike hailed you as a god , and you will make every one jealous . if , however , you have spoken much to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
