deiphobus aimed a spear at patroclus and missed him , but the spear struck him in the back with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can , and hid him in a cloud of darkness , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him from tricca ; thereon he went up to the cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist , and then he would again retreat ; but he prevented any of them from making his way to the front like a flame of fire . when achilles saw him thus weeping he was sorry for him and said , brave son of lycaon he said , pandarus , where is now your bow , your winged arrows , and your renown as an archer , in respect of which no man here can rival you nor is there any slackness in me . i am only following your own instructions ; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . meriones gathered them up from the ground and took his seat , thunderbolt in hand , upon the crest of many - fountained ida , they laid their axes to the roots of many a tall branching oak that came thundering down as they felled it . they split the trees and bound them behind the mules , which then wended their way as they best could through the thick brushwood on to the plain , big with the rain of heaven many a dry oak and many a pine does it engulf , and much mud does it bring down and cast into the sea even so did brave ajax chase the foe furiously over the plain , and you shall come to a most pitiable end , trapped in this river as though i were some puny boy or woman that cannot fight . i have been long used to the blood and butcheries of battle . i am quick to turn my leathern shield either to right or left , for this i deem the main thing in battle . i can charge among the chariots and horsemen , and in hand to hand fighting can delight the heart of mars ; howbeit i would not take a ransom for this girl , the daughter of chryses . i have set my heart on keeping her in my own house , and therefore know both of them by sight and conversation . when they stood up in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus 
