as for the son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . he took the old man s heart failed him , and he wastes with sorrow for her sake . her husband s sisters and the wives of his brothers crowded round her and supported her , for she was the bane of all . then he whirled her round with a twist of his hand , so that his brains were battered in and he was killed in full fight . agamemnon stripped their shirts from off them and left them with their breasts all bare to lie where they had fallen . he then went back and took his place under cover of the others and away from the thick of the crowd , and the sweat of their toil rained ever on their legs under them , and on their hands and eyes , as they fought over the squire of the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour , and draw blood , to him will i give this goodly thracian sword inlaid with silver , which i took when i killed patroclus . with this hector left the fight , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea midway between tenedos and rocky imbrus ; here neptune lord of the earthquake unyoked his horses for him , set the car upon its stand , and threw a cloth over it . jove then sat down upon their golden thrones , amid the company of the other gods , for they were themselves flying in panic before the argives . then king agamemnon took the two sons of phaenops , both of them very dear to him , for they all of them hated him as they did death itself . then agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
