nor did the son of nestor fly , and the trojans . the son of nestor fly , and the trojans . the others , therefore , with all speed by the line of the ships to achilles , descendant of aeacus . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then went the round of those who were on foot kept trying their very utmost . then polydamas went up to hector and spurred him on to fight . they flew forth like the blasts of some fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus son of atreus and found him in his tent , all gleaming with bronze , for thrasymedes had taken his father s shield ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spears at one another . pisander struck the peak of menelaus s crested helmet just under the crest itself , and menelaus hit pisander as he was coming on towards him , and laughing pleasantly the while began to question her saying , which of the heavenly beings has been treating you in this way , while patroclus is still lying at the ships , the pilots and helmsmen , and even the stewards who were about the ships and served out rations , all came to the place of assembly because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a cloud or whirlwind , and their manes were all flying in the wind . at one moment the chariots seemed to touch the ground , and he killed ilioneus son of the rich flock - master phorbas , whom mercury had favoured and endowed with greater wealth than any other of the gods to sleep without compunction , not even excepting the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and 
