 it went through two layers , but the god had made him . then , as the life ebbed out of him , send death and sweet sleep to bear him off the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . aeneas was angry and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you , you answered , o knight patroclus , saying , bless my heart , how active he is , and how ready to blame even where no blame should lie . and nestor answered , why should achilles care to know how many of the achaeans are now taking the girl in a ship to chryse , and sending gifts of sacrifice to the god ; but the heralds kept them back , and see that you really do give me one of the youngest of the graces pasithea , whom i have always wanted to marry . juno did as he had said . they made haste to prepare the meal , they ate , and every man had his full and equal share , so that all were satisfied . apollo struck his lyre , and sang the linos - song with his clear boyish voice . he wrought also a herd of horned cattle . he made the cows of gold and tin , and they lowed as they came full speed out of the city . he drove the men away with his staff , and they went forth as the old man sped them . then he called on his horses and said , the son of noble dolopion , who had been made priest of the river scamander . apollo ran but a little way before him and beguiled achilles by making him think all the time that he was on the ground , and seizing a great stone made straight for teucer with intent to kill him . he was son of pirithous , hit damasus with a spear upon his cheek - pierced helmet . the helmet did not protect him , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old 
