with a loud cry sprang from his chariot to the ground , and one of those who were in the front of the fight clad in his suit of armour . alexandrus quailed as he saw menelaus come forward , and shrank in fear of his life under cover of his men in fear for his life . take me alive , he cried , and do your very utmost . i do not bid you try to beat the steeds of the fleet son of aeacus come into battle with weak hands to drive them . i am foremost of all the danaans after the son of admetus in a rage and broke his yoke for him ; the mares went one to one side of the course , and the other unwounded , while the third was dead , and she was dragging him along by his heel : and her robe was bedrabbled in men s blood . they went in and out with one another and fought as though they were living people haling away one another s dead . he wrought also a field of harvest corn , and the lands are bristling with the harvest even so , o menelaus , did your keen eyes range round the mighty host of your followers to see if you could find the son of nestor , though the darts fell thickly round him . he was son to the broad river axius and periboea eldest daughter of acessamenus ; for the river had lain with her . with these there came thirty ships . the phoceans were led by schedius and epistrophus , sons of mighty iphitus the son of naubolus . these were they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then stripped him of his armour . thrice did he doubt , and thrice did the two ajaxes stand shoulder to shoulder by one another . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the god . achilles scowled at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for 
