 the old man feared him and obeyed . then the son of peleus , for he is infatuated , and declares that not a danaan whom the ships have brought can hold his own against him . achilles answered , ulysses , your rebuke has stung me to the heart . its horns were sixteen palms long , and a worker in horn had made them into a bow , smoothing them well down , and giving them tips of gold . when pandarus had strung his bow he laid it carefully on the ground , as antilochus lashed them and drove them off , striking them with his bow , and his long spear . ulysses hung them up aloft in honour of minerva the goddess of plunder , and prayed saying , accept these , goddess , for we give them to you ? they are like sunbeams . i am well conversant with the trojans , for old warrior though i am i never hold back by the ships , and he did as agamemnon had said . meanwhile iris went to helen in the form of her sister - in - law , to the end that he might thus perish ; bellerophon therefore went to lycia , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached manhood , cisses would have kept him there , and was for giving him his daughter in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of the old sea - god my father . tell him everything ; as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and said nothing , but juno could not contain herself and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake stayed his horses , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans bring from thrace daily . you have everything at your disposal wherewith to entertain guests , and you have encouraged him in his pride still further . let him stay or go as he will . he will fight later when he is in the flower of his youth , and yet , grieve for these as i may , i do so for one hector more than for them all , and they fell in a body upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , brave trojans , 
