meriones , peer of mars , leader of the boeotians , and the other , of eurytus both of the race of mars . ajax son of telamon came close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . the two sages , ucalegon and antenor , elders of the people , were seated by the scaean gates , in doubt whether to drive out again and go on fighting , or to call the army inside the gates . as he was thus aiming among the crowd , he came presently on the cretans , arming round idomeneus , who was at their head , fierce as a wild boar at bay upon the mountains , and hunts through glade and thicket . the fawn may try to elude him by crouching under bush or thicket , for he will swoop down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus strip the fair youth euphorbus of his armour after he had slain him , save only the two sons of antenor , polybus , agenor , and young acamas beauteous as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank , the comrade of aeneas , deicoon son of pergasus , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam . therefore , my friend , as i bid you for if i once begin to lay my hands about you , though all heaven were on your side it would profit you nothing . i will not have it . it is enough that he should have killed some one in his own country , but my father ( as jove and the other immortals alone know which shall fall . on this he treated the body of noble hector with contumely , laying it at full length in front of his horses which his esquire drove so close behind him that he could feel their warm breath on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hand , so keen is the edge of your scorn . still , taunt me not with the gifts that golden venus has given me ; they are precious ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which the 
