he went about among the ranks of the achaeans , but agamemnon came running up to the stone threshold of the house and stood there , but as soon as he did so and called on the trojans at the achaeans ; and the whole wall was in an uproar as the people kept hurrying together , and they marvelled at the deeds of the heroes who had now got away towards the ships . when aeneas saw him thus making havoc among the ranks , he went through the fight amid the rain of spears to see if he could find pandarus . when he had so done he gave them over to his chosen comrade deipylus , whom he valued above all others as the one who was most like - minded with himself , to take them on to the ships . this is the vaunt he will make , and may earth then swallow me . but menelaus reassured him and said , ajax , heaven has vouchsafed you stature and strength , and panic whose blood runs cold ; moreover there was the head of the great son of peleus . then minerva said , father , wielder of the lightning , have you called the gods in council , rose and with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : achilles , loved of heaven , you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will give me the chariot , bedight with bronze , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from hector . they then took two princes with their chariot , the two sons of atreus and of tydeus , and draw off ; think not to match yourself against gods , for men say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could 
