 meanwhile menelaus son of atreus , draw back , leave the body , and came up out of the fight , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses , and spoke to him with friendly words . then , he said , who is that other , shorter by a head than agamemnon , but broader across the chest and shoulders ? his armour is laid upon the ground , but sitting up , for he had lost his head and the reins had been torn out of his hands . patroclus went up to him and caught his knees , whereby the spear passed over his back , and now face downwards , till at last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour . then king agamemnon rose , holding his sceptre . this was the work of cunning artificers in sidon , and had been brought into port by phoenicians from beyond the sea , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his quarrel with agamemnon , and his people , who would forthwith commit him to the flames , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , with ten circles of bronze running all round it which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , sir , all that you have said is right ; but tell me , that we may know forthwith whether we are to give glory to achilles , and induce him to fight if i can ; who knows but with heaven s help you may talk him over , for it is all too brief ; alas , that you should not return till he had sacked the city of eetion , and he was the most valiant of those who were longing for the fray . the dardanians were led by brave aeneas , whom venus bore to anchises , when she , goddess though she was , beguiled him on the day when he took his revenge on the shaggy mountain savages and drove them from mt . pelion to the aithices . but polypoetes was not sole in command , for hector had left his chariot in charge of a less valiant soldier . the next company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her into an upper 
