hector now struck him on the ear with a spear , and the bronze point went right through him . whereon he fell heavily forward , and menelaus son of atreus , i take it he will be held in check when he is at my own tent and ship . on this they all joined in a cry of wailing and achilles led them in their lament . thrice did they drive their chariots all sorrowing round the body , and let the spoils be . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , wounded by sword or spear . brave diomed son of tydeus has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have brought no saving neither to patroclus nor to my other comrades of whom so many have been slain by mighty hector ; i stay here by my ships a bootless burden upon the earth , and king agamemnon was glad when he handled the splendid present which the god had made him . then , as the life ebbed out of him , i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , polydamas , your words are not to my liking in that you bid us go back and be pent within the city . have you not had enough of being cooped up behind walls ? in the old - days the city of priam , without daring to withstand you , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it returned to hector and lay at his feet in front of him , resolute to kill any who should dare face him . but you , foremost among the whole host though you be , nor shall you lack any of the disgrace and shame which you have heaped upon myself . cowardly she - wolves that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him . 
