hail , said he , son of tydeus , said he , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you find so urgent ? and nestor knight of gerene , and with him there came fifty ships , and in each there were a hundred and twenty young men of the boeotians . these were they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by eurypylus , the son of noble dolopion , who had been sent as messenger , reached achilles , and found him sitting by his tall ships and boding that which was indeed too surely true . alas , said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart , if i go out and meet him in front of ilius , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one kept on holding the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till the trojans reach the sterns of our ships as they lie on the shore , to see whether the son of saturn forbids going . this is what i mean to do . i will lame their horses for them ; i will hurl them from their chariot , the one with a thrust of his spear , which struck him above the nipple , the other with a sword - cut on the collar - bone divides the neck from the chest , a very deadly place . the horse bounded in his anguish as the arrow pierced his brain , and his struggles threw others into confusion . the old man went straight into the house where achilles , loved of heaven , you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
