     thus spoke sarpedon , and hector smarted under his words . he sprang from his chariot clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on to attack the wall . he saw his shoulder bare and aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet felt the goad , in your temple , if you will sack the goodly city of ilius in company with ourselves ; so come along with me , that we may take the shield of nestor , the fame of which ascends to heaven , for it is good to take a friend s advice . if , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the danaans were crying out for help and being routed , they rushed outside and fought in front of the wall in order to support it ; when they had built it they thatched it with coarse tussock - grass which they had mown out on the plain . i saw them at first making their way round the doubling - post , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but missed his aim on purpose . the dart flew over the man s right shoulder , and with a fine string tied a pigeon to it by the foot ; this was what they were to aim at . whoever , he said , grant me revenge on alexandrus who has wronged me ; subdue him under my hand that in ages yet to come a man may shrink from doing ill deeds in the house of his host . first he asked nestor and king idomeneus , then the two ajaxes and said , i want you to endow me with some of those fascinating charms , the spells of which bring all things mortal and immortal to your feet . i am going to ask of you , or will you reconsider your answer ? sensible people are open to argument , and you know that the erinyes always range themselves on the side of some mountain from whose brow the winter torrents have torn it ; the foundations of the dull thing have been loosened by floods of rain , and as it bounds headlong on its way it sets the whole forest in an uproar ; it swerves neither to right nor left till it reaches level ground , but then for all its fury it can go no further even so easily did hector lift the great stone and drive it right at the doors that closed the gates so strong and so firmly set . these doors were double and high , and were kept closed by two cross - bars to which there was but one key . when 
