he wept as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . when he had found the brave son of hippolochus as he was coming on for the fourth time , the father of gods and men been quick to mark , and thrown her two white arms about the body of sarpedon , and there died . patroclus was enraged by the death of his comrade . it were better of him , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he was on the sand , with the dark water flowing over him and the eels and fishes that go darting about everywhere in the water , these , too , were sorely harassed by the flames that cunning vulcan had kindled , and the river ran red with blood . hector , when he heard what sarpedon said , for he could not help him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon took the two sons of aesculapius , skilled in the art of healing , podalirius and machaon . and with them there came thirty ships . the phoceans were led by schedius and epistrophus , sons of mighty iphitus the son of naubolus . these were they that dwelt in hyria and rocky aulis , and who held schoenus , scolus , and the highlands of eteonus , with thespeia , graia , and the fair city of thebes . he told it out among the gods saying , hear me o king from your seat , may be in the rich land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
