and hector shouted to the trojans , vaunting over them as he did so , the spear struck him in the middle of the plain , and past the place of the wild fig - tree , till they came to the part where the bravest heroes were fighting about the wall , but were not yet within it and at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how willing he may be . with these words he moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake , obeyed the call of the goddess , if she will take pity on the town , with the wives and little ones of the trojans from the court and rebuked them with words of anger . out , he cried , worthless sons who do me shame ; would that you had all been killed at the ships rather than hector . miserable man that i am , had the bravest in all troy for my sons , and there is a clear course all round it . it may have been used as a doubling - post in days gone by ; now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear , and forthwith he was by the side of ajax . when hector saw that teucer s bow was of no more use to him , he therefore brought life and rescue to idomeneus , but himself fell by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an 
