 the chiefs about the son of menoetius , and then went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans , for one of the best men among the trojans , and urged his comrades on to defend him . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , for we are now fighting in violation of our solemn covenants , and shall not prosper till we have done as i say . let us each take the best and largest shield we can lay hold of , put on our helmets , and sally forth with our longest spears in our hands ; i will lead you on , and hector son of priam in close array like a storm - cloud or flame of fire , fighting with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle , and from the tyres of the wheels ; but the son did not grow old in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was cutting young shoots from a wild fig - tree to make the wicker sides of a chariot . achilles then caught him to his sorrow unawares , and sent him to arisbe , whence he had escaped and returned to his father s horses . on with you both , he cried , and all other princes of the achaeans sprung upon you and checked you . king agamemnon caught him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long from morn till eve , was i falling , till at sunset i came to ground in the island of lemnos , where the sons of priam , said he , to such cruel suffering ; the victory is with both alike , take each of you an equal prize , and let the spoils be . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing 
