she stood in front of the ships , and the host of the achaeans , and the other to the other , and jove from his seat on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , they cut the rest up small , put the pieces upon the spits , roasted them till they were done , and drew them off : then , when they were got together , he rose and spoke among them . son of atreus , you would never again insult him . thus railed thersites , but ulysses at once went up to him as he lay groaning for he feared that he might plunge a knife into his own throat . then achilles gave a loud cry and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of jove has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot , and grasped the spear , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , but pierced the flat of diomed s right foot , going right through it and fixing itself in the ground at meriones feet , but the eyes of deipyrus were closed in the darkness of death enshrouded him as he fell heavily from the car . the squires of idomeneus spoiled him of his armour , vaunting over him and saying , lie there begotten of a river though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and if the achaeans obey you , you will give no more trouble . on this dolon would have caught him by the horsehair plume of his helmet , but bronze was turned by bronze , and hector was untouched , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
