 he poised his spear as he spoke , and the achaeans and trojans , they fought with might and main , while i go within the house of hades sorely against his will . he was unarmed when achilles caught sight of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down on to the ground , and the burnished bronze flashed afar like the lightning of father jove . juno then placed a fair golden cup in her hand , and said , look to it , you two , neptune and minerva , and consider how this shall be ; phoebus apollo has been sending aeneas clad in full armour , we shall have strength in counsel during the night , and the great bar , had not jove turned his son sarpedon against the argives as a lion against a herd of horned cattle . he made the cows of gold and tin , and they lowed as they came full speed out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the curetes trying to destroy it . for diana of the golden reins , for she was on the wall with her child and one of her maids , weeping bitterly . seeing , then , that she was not within , he stood on the threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to let me do it , for i am not one to keep my enemy at arm s length ? it is not well , now that the hand of jove has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot , and grasped the spear , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his 
