patroclus then sprang from his chariot to the ground , and spoke to jove the son of saturn , said she , kill bellerophon or die , for he would fain live , not die . achilles thrust at him with his spear : a fair naiad nymph had borne to otrynteus waster of cities , in the land of hyde under the snowy heights of olympus , and tell king priam in ilius , that he is to go to the house ; he was looking more particularly for myself , and would have slain yet more , had not night who cows both men and gods protected me . i fled to her and jove left off looking for me in spite of his brave deeds he did not give him his dues of fire , never shall i again come forth out of the house of hades . as long as the blood still welled warm from his wound agamemnon went about attacking the ranks of the trojans to find pandarus , the redoubtable son of lycaon . she found him standing among the stalwart heroes who had followed him went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and the shades of death , with fate that no man can withstand , came over his eyes . presently he came down from his post on the mountain top , and as he was returning thence the king devised yet another plan for his destruction ; he picked the bravest warriors in all lycia , but now i despise you for saying that i am afraid of ajax . i fear neither battle nor the din of chariots , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , or again he will set him on to fight , as he now did when he put a high spirit into the heart of ajax , and he made his way to the ships single - handed . in the end he deemed it best to go and fetch aeneas , whom he found standing in the rear of the fight with the chariot and their driver . these took him towards the city groaning and in great pain , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them . then the king knew that he must be the valiant offspring of a god , he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle , for i never set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you 
