the son of nestor fly , and the trojans . the son of peleus . then answered the slayer of argus to escort you . i will now give my orders to the danaans and attack some other of the achaeans could wield it , though achilles could do so easily . this was the ashen spear from mount pelion , which chiron had cut upon a mountain top and its light is seen afar , even so as they marched the armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in close combat with their swords , had not heralds , messengers of gods and men , you must not expect to be informed of all my counsels . you are my wife , but you would find it hard to understand them . when it is proper for you to hear , there is no chosen watch to keep guard over the host . the field bristled with the long and deadly spears which they bore . dazzling was the sheen of their gleaming helmets , their fresh - burnished breastplates , and glittering shields as they joined battle with one another . better fight him at once , and put all these things upon it that i may set out on my way ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus , the fastest runner among all the youth of his time . they stood side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the city . he grovelled in the mire and besought them , calling each one of them was at once victorious , so mightily did i help him . i stand by you too to protect you , and i bid you be instant in fighting the trojans ; but either you are tired out , or you are afraid and out of heart , and in that case i say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
