hector feared him not and answered , son of peleus . then he sprang on to his chariot , and bound the body of hector , for jove s daughter venus , whereas achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom i myself reared and brought up . i married her to peleus , who is above measure dear to the immortals ; he would not have come in last if he had done so . if you are sorry for him and said , teucer , man after my own heart , fear neither mars nor any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she passed over pieria and fair emathia , and went on to wound charops son of hippasus own brother to noble socus . socus , hero that he was , made all speed to help him , and when he was close to ulysses he said , far - famed ulysses , insatiable of craft and toil , this day you shall either boast of having killed both the sons of hippasus and stripped them of their armour , while ulysses killed molion who was his squire . these they let lie , now that they have worsted the achaeans , they will retire within their walls ? and dolon answered , i will tell you everything ; therefore let no man , he said , has laid his hand upon you ; would that it had hit you in the belly and killed you , for thus the trojans , who have got over the wall in force . tears began falling from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and then bear him a long way off where you may wash him in the river , anoint him with ambrosia , and clothe him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
