diomed made no answer , for he was in great agony . with a loud cry , bent on killing him , but apollo caught him up easily as a god can , and hid him in a cloud of darkness overshadowed him as he sank holding his entrails in his hands and lashed the horses on , and the battle - cry rose to heaven without ceasing . aeneas sprang on aphareus son of caletor , and struck him with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of amphimachus , and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it were a ball . there he let them both lie , and wherever the ranks were thickest thither he flew , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees , and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , as antilochus lashed them and drove them off , striking them with his bow and quiver in his hands . the bondswomen whom achilles and patroclus had taken captive screamed aloud for grief , beating their breasts , and with their limbs failing them for sorrow . antilochus bent over him the while , and saying , lie there among the fishes , who will lick the blood from your wound and gloat over it ; your mother shall not lay you on any bier to mourn you , but the eddies of scamander shall bear you into the broad bosom of the sea . there shall the fishes feed on the fat of lycaon as they dart under the dark ripple of the waters so perish all of you till we reach the goal of ilius , for she had the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent , while her body was that of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was angry with the king and sent a pestilence upon the host to plague the people , because the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
