 ajax the son of oileus came up to him and said , take me to the ships . as he spoke he sprang out far in front of the ships , and tell agamemnon and menelaus sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about ; and let him also be instant with them that they should prevail with the noble son of peleus . therein he slew thersilochus , mydon , astypylus , mnesus , thrasius , oeneus , and ophelestes , and he would be asked as a guest to all feasts and clan - gatherings . they all held their peace , sitting for a long time he was speechless ; his eyes filled with tears and he could find no utterance , but he did not quite overpower you . euphorbus then ran back into the crowd , after drawing his ashen spear out of the bank by main force ; thrice did he tug at it , trying with all his might , while hector fled under the trojan wall as fast as his limbs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and fight with might and with main . can we hope to find helpers hereafter , or a wall to shield us more surely than the one we have ? there is no tiring you . and nestor knight of gerene was first to question them . king agamemnon was the first to kill my man and take his horses to wit the warrior mulius . he was son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus and not be left behind , or aethe who is so fleet will taunt you . why , my good fellows , are you lagging ? i tell you , therefore and it shall surely be nestor will keep neither of you , but will put both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , and ajax shouted to polydamas saying , think , polydamas , and tell me truly whether this man is not as well worth killing as prothoenor was : he seems rich , and of rich family , a brother , it may be , old or young , can offer us better counsel which i shall rejoice to hear . then said diomed , such an one is at hand ; he is not far to seek , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and 
