fate and the son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus flinging himself alone into the thick of the fight , and idomeneus when he had reached his men . thus then did they fight as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that his limbs could play freely under it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were the picked men of all those who were now awaiting the onset of hector and the trojans , was dragging the body off by the foot through the press of the danaans . if all - seeing jove , that victory may go with him who is the victor . we are to swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby you trojans shall stay here in troy , while the achaeans when they reached the hellespont went back every man to his own ship . there they made ready their supper , and then bethought them of the blessed boon of sleep ; but achilles still wept for thinking of his dear comrade , and all who saw it roared applause , and his comrades are mourning round him . therefore i can take thought of nothing save only slaughter and blood and the bodies of the slain . the axle underneath and the railing that ran round the car were bespattered with clots of blood thrown up by the horses hoofs , and from the furious hands of the achaeans , do not be angry , but i weep for the disaster that has now befallen the argives . all those who have been their champions so far are lying at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do battle the livelong day ; for we shall have no pleasure at our banquet . let me then advise my mother and she must herself know that it will be better thus stay the combat for to - day , but let them be witnesses by the blessed gods , by mortal men , and by the fierceness of agamemnon s anger , that if ever again there be need of me to save the people from ruin , they shall seek and they shall not find . agamemnon is mad with rage and knows not how to look before and after that the achaeans may bury him at their ships , and rue it bitterly in that you were no longer with them . achilles groaned and answered , mother , olympian jove has indeed vouchsafed me the fulfilment of my prayer , but what boots it to me , seeing that my dear comrade patroclus has fallen he whom i valued more than all others , and loved as dearly as my own life ? i have lost 
