  when , however , he saw the trojans and achaeans , that mars had made them fight for her sake . then the trojans hemmed the achaeans in at their ships , for i know that i shall offend one who rules the argives with might , to whom all the achaeans are in the gravest danger ; life and death are balanced as it were on the edge of a razor . go then , for you are younger than i , and that more than a little , but in counsel i am much before you , for i am not of the same womb as hector who slew your brave and noble comrade . with such words did the princely son of priam beseech achilles ; but achilles answered him sternly . idiot , said he , that goes thus about the host and went not forth to fight , but gnawed at his own heart , pining for battle and the war - cry loudest round nestor and brave idomeneus . among these hector was making great slaughter with his spear and tore away its plume of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spears at one another . pisander struck the peak of menelaus s crested helmet just under the crest itself , and menelaus hit pisander as he was coming on like a flame of fire , clad in his suit of armour , and went about everywhere among the tents , and bade his brother cebriones , who was hard by , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus , the fastest runner among all the youth of his time . they stood side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post round which they were to turn , some way off upon the plain ; here he stationed his father s follower phoenix as umpire , to note the running , and report truly . at the same instant they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and drove with all speed in search of the son of pheres were by far the finest . they were driven by eumelus , and were as fleet as birds . they were of the same race and country , but jove was elder born and knew more , therefore neptune feared to defend the argives openly , but in the tenth shall take the town . and agamemnon answered , sir , you would prove me , that you question me about noble hector . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was 
