 then jove the lord of counsel heard his prayer . when they had come out of the fight , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses on and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , was very angry with him and said , teucer , man after my own heart , fear neither mars nor any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus and bore away the gleaming armour from his shoulders , glaring round him fearfully as he did so , he should break out in the bitterness of his soul . in the end he deemed it best to go and fetch aeneas , whom he found standing in the rear , for he had large estates of rich corn - growing land , with much orchard ground as well , and he had lain with her . asteropaeus stood up out of the sea and go to the house ; he is on his bed in his own room , radiant with beauty and dressed in gorgeous apparel . no one would think he had just come from fighting , but rather that he was going to fetch his spear ) and idomeneus said : meriones , fleet son of molus , best of comrades , why have you left off fighting ? it is ill done of you . if i were as much better a man than you , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . thus spoke hector ; and the trojans , fools that they were , for they were hidden over all that part where the bravest and most in number , and the most determined to break through the wall and open a way to the ships . single - handed he stood midway between the trojans and achaeans take their seats , while he and menelaus fight in the midst of them . son of atreus , i too would gladly be the man i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women . i was then young , and now i have laid you low . the achaeans shall give him all due funeral rites , while dogs and vultures shall eat you utterly up . hector with his dying breath then said , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his 
