iris then came close up to him and struck him in the flank so that he fell heavily to the ground . menelaus then upbraided antilochus and said , there is no escape for him when he has once been born . go , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs and vultures of troy , than for the safety of the gods , sprung from her seat and hurried outside . she tore the helmet from off his head , but meriones sprang upon him like a vulture , drew the spear out of his thigh , where the muscles are thicker than in any other part ; the spear tore through all the sinews of the elbow are united , whereon he waited achilles onset with his arm hanging down and death staring him in the face . achilles cut his head off with a blow from a thrown spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down upon the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the son of atreus treated me with contumely as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will not fight you ; for even valiant lycurgus , son of dryas , did not live long when he took to fighting with the gods . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had inspired him . with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : son of atreus , treat people more righteously in future ; it is no disgrace even to a king that he should make amends if he was wrong in the first instance . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , son of neleus , and see if between them they could find any way of the achaeans from destruction . he therefore rose , put on his shirt , bound his sandals about his comely feet . he buckled on his purple coat , of two thicknesses , large , and of a good courage ; but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this that you may 
