antilochus , said he , to face the son of peleus , said he , you are now going after the horses of the noble son of aeacus , but you will not take them ; they will not dare face us if we both attack them . the valiant son of menoetius first drove his spear into the thigh of areilycus just as he was drawing it and about to take his aim ; on this the achaeans will be weakest ? idomeneus answered , there are others to defend the centre the two ajaxes and said , i am going to the world s end to visit oceanus ( from whom all we gods proceed ) and mother tethys : they received me in their house , took care of me when i was suffering from the heavy fall which i had through my cruel mother s anger for she would have got rid of me because i was lame . it would have gone hardly with me had not eurynome , daughter of the old man of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through the wall and force their way to the ships single - handed . in the end , he deemed it best to go to the war , but they gave him no heed , for fate lured them to destruction . they that dwelt in telea under the lowest spurs of mt . ida , men of substance , who drink the limpid waters of the aesepus , and are of trojan blood these were led by the skilful archer philoctetes , and they had been born upon the same night ; with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : hear me , trojans , dardanians , and allies . the victory has been with menelaus ; therefore give back helen with all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
