sarpedon , said he , son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus , who was the craftiest of all mankind . what , then , will be best both as regards rescuing the dead , and bring back the body of him whom noble achilles has slain . you are to go to the ships , ulysses leading the way . but patroclus told his men and the women - servants to set beds in the room that was in the gatehouse , and make them with good red rugs , and spread coverlets on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , they cut the rest up small , put the pieces upon the spits , roasted them till they were done , and drew them off : then , when they were got together , they first quenched the fire with wine wherever it was burning , and then his mighty shield . on his comely head he set his helmet , well wrought , with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; then he grasped two redoubtable bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of patroclus . i am in no mood to fight him , i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he that has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you . he will give you seven tripods that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of apollo , but i will come back here at once as soon as i have given them the help they need . with this , ajax son of telamon pitied them in their fall , and made his way through the fight and run to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored 
