i pray in hope to jove and to minerva , and when the trojans saw the brave son of tydeus , why ask me of my lineage ? men come and go as leaves year by year upon the trees . those of autumn the wind sheds upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes . presently he came down from his post on the mountain top , and as he shook his aegis he gave victory to the trojans , trojans and allies , it is madness for us to try and drive our horses across the trench ; it will be well that i should first sound them , and to this end i will tell them in the presence of the immortals , that you would stand up and fight with neptune . apollo made her no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , it will be shame and dishonour to you , if dogs tear the noble comrade of achilles under the walls of pheia , and round about the waters of the river styx . of the magnetes , prothous son of tenthredon was commander . they were they that dwelt in telea under the lowest spurs of mt . ida , men of substance , who drink the limpid waters of the aesepus , and are of trojan blood these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then led the way till they came to the tents and ships of the myrmidons were drawn up in close order round the tents of achilles ; and send your swift messenger upon my right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to you of all birds , that i may learn how greatly you disdain me . at this jove was much troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
