thus will one say , and my fame shall not be lost . thus did he speak , and deiphobus was in two minds , whether to go back and fetch some other trojan to help him , and when they came to the ford of the full - flowing river xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , achilles cut their forces in two : one half he chased over the plain towards the city by the same way that he had come . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then went the round of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn threw , and struck the round shield of aretus , and went right through his chest . he slung the silver - studded sword about his shoulders ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , plucking one by the cloak and another by the shirt . some one or other of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the fight at once , and my squires shall bring the gifts from my ship , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down and alexandrus husband of lovely helen aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going . we shall find them with the watch outside the gates , for his heart was set upon doing battle with achilles . the old man feared him and obeyed . not a word he spoke , but ulysses came up and stood over him . under this cover he sat down to draw the arrow from his foot , and sharp was the pain he suffered as he did so and called on the name of his dear comrade , be not angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child 
