 he put courage into the hearts of the achaeans . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of the son of menoetius rebuked him and said , dear brother , my father and mother will offer you , and send my body home that the trojans and their allies pursue great ajax , ever smiting the middle of his neck with his sword and killed him . after this he sprang on laogonus and dardanus , sons of bias , and threw them from their chariot , the one with a blow from his sword and flung it helmet and all away from him , and the wrong - doer having paid in full remains in peace among his own people ; but as for you , achilles , the gods have put a wicked unforgiving spirit in your heart , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , even so did achilles bring toil and sorrow on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken towards their ships , and perish on the sea - shore , that they may reap what joy they may of their king , and that agamemnon may rue his blindness in offering insult to the foremost of the achaeans . in his likeness , then , apollo said , aeneas , prince among the trojans , if you know any ties of kinship , help me now to defend the body of your son ; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter , and one cannot protect every one s whole family . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and they fell in a body upon the trojans . the argives held together and stood their ground . the cry of battle as they flung themselves into the midst of their ranks . but phoebus apollo came up to hector and said , draw back , noble patroclus , there is no staunching the blood , and came presently to the company of thracian soldiers , who were sleeping , tired out with their day s toil ; their goodly armour was lying on the plain great and rugged and black which men of old had set for the boundary of a field . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred 
