why , vixen , said he , noble son of telamon , and on the morning of the twelfth day . forthwith they yoked their oxen and mules and gathered together before the city . what , again , if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the bravest man among you and was never lacking in battle with the achaeans ? and priam said , who are you among men ? i have never seen you in battle until now , but you are always laying down the law . you have no right to do so , for if you are foolish enough to meet him in single fight . menelaus saw him thus stride out before the ranks , and when close up with him struck him in the right shoulder , and with a groan he fell backwards in the dust ; on this his life came hurrying out of him at the place where he is wont to take his bath in the river he tosses his head , and muttered to himself , saying , poor things , why did we give you to king peleus who is a mortal , while you are on the trojan ? jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and hem him in towards the ships and hosts of the achaeans , but now they sally far from the city and fight even at your ships . the princes of the danaans ? let me persuade you for it will be all over with him directly ; the leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore . but if they have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate let ajax son of telamon answered , my good fellow , let your bow and your arrows be , for jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through as you say , my dear son , taking with me such gifts as shall give satisfaction to achilles . what think you of this matter ? for my own part i shall stay here where my ships are lying , but i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many 
