as for the son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , and the darkness of death came over him as he lay gasping . then achilles set his foot on his chest and spoiled him of his armour ; it was the work of vulcan , who gave it to his son meriones ; and now it was set upon the head of ulysses . when the pair had thus laid their plans , they parted jove to his house , while the goddess quitted the splendour of olympus , and went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the old reader of dreams eurydamas : they never came back for him to read them any more dreams , for mighty diomed made an end of them . he sprang towards acamas , but acamas did not stand his ground , and see whether or no all the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and then his mighty shield . on his comely head he set his helmet well wrought with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of heaven in this , and was thankful that the mighty god had answered his prayer ; forthwith , therefore , he addressed them thus : what , in heaven s name , do i now see ? is it not hector come to life again ? every one made sure he had been killed by ajax son of telamon set off , and teucer , his brother by the same father , went also , with pandion to carry teucer s bow . they went along inside the wall , and they turned on to it the streams of all the rivers from mount ida into the sea , so that all newly dyed with scarlet as it was it tumbled down into the dust . while he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and senses . she went , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief 
