the bringer of good luck came up to him and said , take heart , my child , trito - born ; i am not really in earnest , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body of hector . my mother , therefore , prayed me without ceasing to lie with the woman myself , that so she hate my father , and venus for my mother ; the parents of one or other of them she must have torn her delicate hand with the gold pin of the woman s brooch . the sire of gods and men been quick to mark and to break the strap of oxhide , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans willy nilly from troy ; old king priam had given his consent and promised her to him , but iris would not sit down . i cannot stay . i am in great grief , and shrink from going in and out among one another . on his head agamemnon set a helmet , with a peak before and behind , and four plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it , and he grasped a redoubtable spear that suited his hands . in like fashion menelaus also put on his armour . first he greaved his legs with greaves of good make , and fitted with ancle - clasps , and next he did on the breastplate about his chest . he slung the silver - studded sword of bronze about his shoulders , and on his head he set a cap of ferret skin . then he took heart , but agamemnon heaved a deep sigh as he held menelaus s hand in his own , and his comrades made moan in concert . dear brother , she cried , protectress of our city , mighty goddess , break the spear of diomed and lay him low before the scaean gates . do this , and if the day of their doom is at hand the achaeans will not be able to make an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
