thereon the son of peleus before andromache . the son of atreus drew near in a body , many in number , they could not drive them back from the ships , the dust rose from under them as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses in the front rank , the comrade of aeneas , deicoon son of pergasus , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam . therefore , my son , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of the earth no , not though heaven itself vouchsafe to strip my years from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women . i was then young , and now i am old ; still i can go with my knights and give them that counsel which old men have a right to give . the wielding of the spear i leave to those who are younger and stronger than myself . agamemnon went his way rejoicing , and presently found menestheus , son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and with him the other chiefs of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour him with gifts as though were a god , he shouted aloud saying , hound , this time too you have escaped death but of a truth it came exceedingly near you . phoebus apollo , to whom it seems you pray before you go into battle , has again saved you , nevertheless i will meet you and make an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
