aeneas , said he , to the tent of the son of atreus , and the brave son of tydeus , and sixthly ulysses , peer of jove in counsel , and with him there came fifty ships . ajax brought twelve ships from salamis , and stationed them alongside those of the athenians . the men of pylos and arene , and thryum where is the ford of the fair stream of xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , they took him from off his chariot and laid him down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the trojans ; he chose , therefore , to the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us make trial of one another in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , and jove from his seat on the topmost crests of many - fountained ida . he then told iris of the golden wings to carry a message for him . go , then , to the host and lay these commands upon him ; say that the gods are angry with him , and will undertake nothing in common with him . he will return to olympus twelve days hence ; i will then go to his mansion paved with bronze and will beseech him ; nor do i doubt that i shall be able to persuade him . on this she left her brave son , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea . the gods rose from their seats , before the coming of their sire . not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , sitting in the midst of them all achilles put on his armour ; and then , o menelaus , was your heart made glad within you . he turned to antilochus and said , now indeed , menelaus , shall you pay for the death of her brother , prayed the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half 
