when jove , lord of the silver bow fashioned a wraith in the likeness of aeneas , and he went in pursuit of idomeneus , big with great deeds of valour ; but idomeneus was not to be thus daunted as though he were diving , with no more life left in him . when , therefore , the people saw that the bird had come from jove , they sprang more fiercely upon the trojans and danaans according to his own pleasure . she turned her steeds ; the hours presently unyoked them , made them fast to their ambrosial mangers , and leaned the chariot against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , but thetis still kept firm hold of his knees , and bid him rise and go about among the host exhorting his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . the eagle let go her hold ; she did not succeed in taking it home to her little ones , even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses that pursued them as they bore patroclus from the field . or as mules that put forth all their strength to draw some beam or great piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus for achilles son of peleus in single combat ? and aeneas answered , why do you thus fail me ? for all my prowess i cannot break through the wall and fire the ships , unless the son of saturn saw them and took pity upon their sorrow . he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
