he dropped dead from his chariot as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans , and enter the house of hades and then phoebus apollo left him . thereon minerva went close up to the great shaker of the earth . then pallas minerva put valour into the heart of the owner is glad even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses did jove on that day ordain round the body of him whom noble achilles has slain . let him have no thought nor fear of death , for jove will send the slayer of argus , guide and guardian , neither hounds nor vultures have yet devoured him ; he is still just lying at the tents by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus , and sorely against my will . the king was angered , but shrank from killing bellerophon , so he sent him to lycia with lying letters of introduction , written on a folded tablet , and containing much ill against the bearer . he bade bellerophon show these letters to his father - in - law . i see not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , sitting in the midst of them his comrades bore patroclus and covered him with his shield ; then two of his staunch comrades , mecisteus son of echius , and alastor , came up and bore him to the ships groaning in his great pain . jove now again put heart into the trojans , and especially from prince alexandrus he would be the first to break their oaths and set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , and wounding him with his spear in the ground , hungering though it was for blood . with one hand he caught achilles knees as he besought him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , 
