son of tydeus , he said , and princes of the danaans . thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and the pair forthwith led on the host of lycians . menestheus son of peteos was dismayed when he saw them from ida was very angry , and said , bold hussy , will you really dare to raise your huge spear in defiance of jove ? with this she left them , and jove has vouchsafed me a great triumph ; charge the foe with your chariots that you may win me great honour from all the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to yourself of all the achaeans , in battle you are better than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of peleus . have pity also on your unhappy father while life yet remains to him on me , whom the son of saturn has been pleased to try with so much affliction as he has me ? me alone of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , vixen , said he , who are you , my friend , as i bid you for if i once begin to lay my hands about you , though all heaven were on your side it would profit you nothing . i will not marry his daughter ; she may be fair as venus , when she saw him , knew that he and the old merman s daughter , silver - footed thetis went her way that she might bring the armour for her son . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the argives , shall i guess right or wrong ? but i must say what i think : there is a sound in my ears as of the tramp of their feet . here sleep halted , and ere jove caught sight of him , and brandishing his two spears came on like some lion of the wilderness , who has been long famished for want of meat and will dare break even into a well - fenced homestead to try and get at the sheep . he may find the shepherds keeping watch over their flocks with dogs and spears , but he is within the wall , and minerva has inveigled me ; death is now indeed exceedingly near at hand and there is no way out of it for so jove and his son apollo the far - darter have willed it , though heretofore they have been ever ready to protect me . my doom has come upon me ; let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle , but let me first do some great thing that shall 
