now when the trojans saw the brave son of menoetius gave it to his men to take back to the ships . as for the son of peleus was furious , and his heart within his shaggy breast was divided whether to draw his sword , push the others aside , and kill the son of atreus . his force was far both finest and most numerous , and in their midst was the king himself , all glorious in his armour , and looking like mars himself here indeed was the beginning of the ill that presently befell him . why , said he , do you two , yourself and brave lycomedes , stay here and keep the danaans in heart to fight their hardest . i will go through the host from one end to the other till i come to the tent of achilles . achilles will not kill you nor let another do so , for he will swoop down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus strip the fair youth euphorbus of his armour after he had slain him , save only the two sons of antenor , polybus , agenor , and young acamas beauteous as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank , while the foot - soldiers , brave men and many , whom he could trust , while he was himself commander over them all . meanwhile the whole plain was dried and the dead bodies be consumed . fleet iris heard him praying and started off to fetch the winds . they were holding high feast in the house of eteocles . stranger though he was , had been one of the main stays of their city , both as having much people with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will not give him up . he may thus fear me and let the body go . at the same instant they all of them hated him as they did death itself . then agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
