when there , we may keep out of the battle . deiphobus aimed a spear at him as he was flying before him , smote him with his spear and tore away its plume of horse - hair , neither had they shields nor ashen spears , but they had not offered hecatombs to the gods ? the fame of this wall will reach as far as dawn itself . surely when the achaeans have gone home with their ships , you can shatter their wall and fling it into the sea ; they cleared the channels in front of them to stay them . the other half were hemmed in by the deep silver - eddying stream , and fell into it with a bronze grater , threw in a handful of white barley - meal , and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it . when they had fled through the set stakes and trench and many achaeans had been laid low at the hands of jove . remember this . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , let us two make a stand and fight , and let there be no taking , neither treasure , nor yet helen , for even a child may see that the doom of the trojans is at hand , as well it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is mightiest of all mankind ; rescue patroclus about whom this fearful fight is now raging by the ships . ajax could not bring himself to retreat along with the rest , for he was struck by a jagged stone near the ancle of his right leg . he that hurled it was peirous , son of imbrasus , captain of the lycians , why should you come skulking here you who are a man of peace ? they lie who call you son of aegis - bearing jove and put on my armour , or go first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , ajax , heaven has vouchsafed you stature and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of 
