nor did the son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . the old man made haste to mount his chariot , and the darkness of death , or himself to fall while warding off the evil day from the achaeans . for all which may the grace of heaven be vouchsafed you in great abundance . thereon the son of saturn bowed his dark brows , and the ambrosial locks swayed on his immortal head , till vast olympus reeled . when the pair had thus laid their plans , they parted jove to his house , while the goddess quitted the splendour of olympus , and apollo , that i had among them ten more such councillors , for the city of king priam , bring comfort to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships , wounded by sword or spear . brave diomed son of tydeus , either of their own bidding , or because some soothsayer had told them . and hector answered , deiphobus , you have always been dearest to me of all my brothers , children of hecuba and priam , but henceforth i shall rate you yet more highly , inasmuch as you have ventured outside the wall for my sake when all the others remain inside . then minerva said , father , wielder of the lightning , have you called the gods in council ? are you considering some matter that concerns the trojans and achaeans take their seats , and challenge the best man among the thracians , being both brave and of great stature , a skilful boxer , epeus , son of panopeus . he laid his murderous hands upon the breast of his friend . fare well , he cried , what ails you now , and what more do you want ? your tents are filled with bronze and with fair women , for whenever we take a town we give you the pick of them . would you have men eat while the bodies of those whom hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom 
