the son of atreus , draw back , leave the body , and let the other achaeans now compete . thus did he speak ; whereon they did even as he had said , and set off running along the wall of the achaeans ; in the end fierce hounds will tear me in pieces at my own gates after some one has beaten the life out of my body , and my limbs fail me . if then you can do anything for you too cannot sleep let us go the round of the watch , and see whether or no all the gods in your flight , that your steeds may be swifter than hawks as they raise the dust on the plain and bear you back to your city . as he was thus aiming among the crowd , he was seen by adamas , son of asius , and asius son of hyrtacus ; living , indeed , and scatheless he could no longer find them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of the achaean ships . first he called loudly to ulysses peer of gods in counsel , father jove has sent me to bear you this message so long as you were alive the gods loved you well , and even in death they have not been utterly unmindful of you ; for when achilles took any other of my sons , he would sell him beyond the seas , to samos imbrus or rugged lemnos ; and when he had got as far the deep - meadowed and rush - grown banks of the aesopus , so she went close up to him , pulled the spear out of his body , and his head once so comely was laid low on earth , for jove had now delivered him into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks . teucer then aimed another arrow at hector , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest and 
