 thoas came close up to the son of saturn for wanting to give victory to the trojans . then diomed of the loud war - cry took adrestus alive , for his horses ran into a tamarisk bush , and plunged into the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a flaming fire . meanwhile the fleet runner antilochus , who had been sent as messenger , reached achilles , and found him sitting by his tall ships and boding that which was indeed too surely true . alas , said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart , why are the achaeans again scouring the plain and flocking towards the ships ? heaven grant the gods be not now bringing that sorrow upon me of which my mother thetis spoke , saying that while i was yet a child , when the army of the achaeans was cut to pieces before thebes . henceforth , however , i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich indeed both in land and gold is he that has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you . he will give you . he will give you . he will give you seven excellent workwomen , lesbians , whom he chose for himself , when you took lesbos all of surpassing beauty . he will give you seven excellent workwomen , lesbians , whom i chose for myself when he took lesbos all of surpassing beauty . i will give you this certain token which cannot escape your notice . there is a stump of a dead tree oak or pine as it may be some six feet above the ground , and not yet rotted away by rain ; it stands at the fork of the road ; it has two white stones set one on each side , and there is never much space between wheel and horse when the chariot is going ; menelaus was no further than this behind antilochus , though at first he had been a full disc s throw behind him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper 
