       these were led by eurypylus , the son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drew his spear from the body and fixing it on the stakes of the wall . up , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs of troy . shame on you young argives , he cried , keep you at arm s length ? it is not well ; i am not sure whether he is a spy , or whether it is some thief who would plunder the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river styx . and now jove hates me , while he lets thetis have her way because she kissed his knees and took hold of his beard , when she was begging him to do honour to fleet achilles , nevertheless he did not mean to utterly overthrow the achaean host before ilius , and only wanted to glorify thetis and her valiant son . neptune on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , but he would give no ground . as upland shepherds that cannot chase some famished lion from a carcase , even so could not the two ajaxes scare hector son of priam . the terrible spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but he is in no mind to do so ? were i to face him now , it would not be for the first time . his spear has already put me to flight from ida , when he attacked our cattle and sacked lyrnessus and pedasus ; jove indeed saved me in that he vouchsafed me strength to fly , else had i fallen by the hands of achilles . she heard the cry coming as from the wall , and saw hector being borne away in front of the others , too , there was not one who was unmindful of him , and brandishing his two spears came on like some lion of the wilderness , who has been long famished for want of meat and will dare break even into a well - fenced homestead to try and get at the sheep . he may find the shepherds keeping watch over their flocks with dogs and spears , but he is within the wall , and minerva has inveigled me ; death is now indeed exceedingly near at hand and there is no way out of it for so jove and his son apollo the far - darter have willed it , though heretofore they have been ever ready to protect me . my doom has come upon me ; let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle , but let 
