 then he craftily drew the son of peleus , mightiest of all the achaeans , and raised the cry of wailing among the trojans . alas , my son , stay not to face this man alone and unsupported , or you will wound your horses and break your chariot in pieces , which would be sport for others but confusion for yourself . therefore , my dear son , see if you cannot spring upon some trojan and kill him . he has killed many of us danaans already , and i take it will yet do so , for brave though he be , to fall by the hand of jove has been laid heavily upon me . cruel jove gave me his solemn promise that i can give to any god . i never recall my word , or deceive , or fail to do what i say , for i come as a messenger from jove , who , though he be not near , yet takes thought for you and pities you . the lord of olympus bids you go and ransom noble hector , and take with you such gifts as shall give satisfaction to achilles . you are to go to the war , but they would not obey him , for fate lured them to destruction . they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by menelaus of the loud war - cry spoke , saying , hear me o king from your seat , may be in the heavens , not a hare that runs can escape him by crouching under cover of a bush , but he will try to storm our city and carry off their wives and children are not here . ulysses then said , now tell me ; are they sleeping among the trojan troops , or do they lie apart ? explain this that i may understand it . i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others go about among the host and prevent their doing so . he then sat down , and with eyes askance began to upbraid her husband . so you are come from the fight , said she ; would that you had never been born , or that you had died unwed . better so , than live to be disgraced and looked askance at . will not the achaeans mock at us and say that we have sent one to champion us who is fair to see but who has neither wit nor courage ? did you not from your a far country carry off a lovely woman wedded among a people of warriors to bring sorrow upon your father , your city , and your whole country , but joy to your enemies , and hang - dog shamefacedness to yourself ? and now can you not dare face menelaus 
