ida , and was honoured among his people as though he were a god . on this he made his way to the front like a flame of fire , fighting with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that some one of the immortals had come down from the city and fight their hardest , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one that was most beautifully enriched with embroidery , as an offering to minerva : it glittered like a star , and the golden plumes which vulcan had set thick about the ridge of the helmet , waved all around it . then achilles made trial of himself in his armour to see whether it fitted him , so that the cuirass was covered with blood . on this the mighty monster hobbled off from his anvil , his thin legs plying lustily under him . mars of gleaming helmet joined the trojans , and learn whether they will desert their city now that hector has fallen , or will still hold out even though he is no longer living . but why argue with myself in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , they were daunted and their battalions were thrown into confusion , for they thought the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , for he had been in stature , voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story 
