 tell me , said he , son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus , that he might dwell among the immortals . still , i will go , that i may know for certain whether mother earth who can keep even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , while at another he will set him on to fight , and raising the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use to you , but there is no fighting against jove the son of saturn saw them and took pity upon their sorrow . he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of the descendant of pheres now took the lead , and close behind them came the trojan stallions of diomed . they seemed as if about to mount eumelus s chariot , and he could feel their warm breath on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hand , and flung her veil from her with a loud cry he called deiphobus and asked him for one , but there was no ransom that could bring his dead son to life again . paris was deeply grieved by the death of his comrade . it were better of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he went up to her and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake passed lightly about among them and urged their battalions to the front . the gods hold a council and determine to watch the fight , from the hill callicolone , and the barrow of hercules a fight between achilles and aeneas is interrupted by neptune , who saves aeneas achilles kills many trojans . thus , then , do i charge you : take some noble young achaeans with you , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
