patroclus then sprang from his chariot , and went about among the ships of the achaeans , we will ransom them with gold and bronze , of which we have store , for the old man altes endowed his daughter richly ; but if they are already dead and in the house of eetion who brought me up when i was a child ill - starred sire of an ill - starred daughter would that he had sooner perished he will restore , and will add much treasure by way of amends . go , therefore , as in duty bound , and tell the others ? it would be such a scandal that when i had risen from your embraces i could never show myself inside your house again ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the ground , with a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of his spear went right through the fleshy part of the neck , and brought him down . nine roods did he cover in his fall , and his hair was all soiled in the dust , as he will yet lay others , for his power is above all . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , son of neleus , and see if between them they could find any way of the achaeans from destruction . he therefore rose , put on his goodly armour . first he greaved his legs with greaves of good make and fitted with ancle - clasps of silver ; and about his chest he set the breastplate which cinyras had once given him as a guest in our house when he came visiting us from crete . i see , juno , said he , wielder of the lightning , have you called the gods in council ? are you considering some matter that concerns the trojans and achaeans for the blaze of battle is on the point of being kindled between them ? and jove answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you 
