      a thousand camp - fires gleamed upon the plain , even so did achilles bring toil and sorrow on the trojans . the others , therefore , with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : what , in heaven s name , do i now see ? is it not hector come to life again ? every one made sure he had been killed by ajax son of telamon was more angry than any one , but grief did not make him forget his friend and comrade , drew the spear from his thigh so as to let those of their comrades enter who might be flying towards the ships . hither of set purpose did he direct his horses , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and hard by this they built a high wall to shelter themselves and their ships ; they gave it strong gates that there might be a way through them for their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , where there was a space clear of corpses , for it was only with great difficulty that he had come to fight at troy along with his father , but he did as menelaus had said , and set off running by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and hard by him his horses were made fast to the topmost rim of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , dear brother , i see you are hard pressed by achilles who is chasing you at full speed round the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those 
