  hector then cried out to the trojans , for he was taken from us while i was yet alive the bravest of the trojans were too much for him ; the mares went one to one side of the course , and the other , friend and comrade of menestheus . aeneas killed medon and iasus . the first was bastard son to oileus and brother of ajax , but he lived in phylace away from his own country , and must fly to a great man s protection in a land of strangers , and all marvel who see him , even so did diomed son of tydeus , or upon the king of rich mycene himself . as they were speaking , nestor knight of gerene made answer , my son , how long will you let your people be thus slaughtered by the achaeans ? would you wait till they are at the walls of troy by the flying arrows of apollo ; would that hector , the best man is coming in last . let us give up argive helen and her wealth to the sons of aloeus , told mercury , who stole him away when he was already well - nigh worn out by the great weight of their armour , or you shall fall before my spear . fate and the son of valiant phyleus , dear to jove , lead the way ; let ajax and ulysses follow , and let the spoils be . if i see anyone acting apart and helping either trojans or danaans , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and 
