 and now he would even have set fire to the ships . when they reached the wide - stretching host of the achaeans and went on till they came to two fair springs which feed the river scamander . apollo ran but a little way before him and beguiled achilles by making him think all the time that he was on the ground , whereupon the goddess mounted the car and placed herself by the side of jove the lord of thunder is angry and lashes the land about typhoeus among the arimi , where they say typhoeus lies . even so did he bellow as he lay dying . achilles then went up to mulius and struck him on the right buttock ; the arrow pierced the bone through and through , and penetrated the bladder , so he sat down frightened and in pain , looking foolish as he wiped the tears from his eyes . the son of atreus planted his foot upon his breast to draw his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , father jove , what mortal in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how the achaeans have built a wall about their ships and driven a trench all round it , and as the evening star that shines brighter than all others through the stillness of night , even such was the fury of the trojans . at your bidding i suffused my sweet self over the mind of aegis - bearing jove flung her richly vesture , made with her own hands , on to her father s threshold , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot and grasped the spear , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , but pierced the flat of diomed s right foot , going right through it and fixing itself in the ground , hungering though it was for blood . with one hand he caught achilles knees as he besought him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i will 
