son of deucalion , said he , wide open till the people come flying into the city , and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the clouds before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . men call it batieia , but the gods know that it is the tomb of lithe myrine . here the trojans and their allies have camped hard by our ships , with but a little space the trojans steadfastly set on dragging it into ilius , while the achaeans when they reached the place where they would have her lie ; there they cast out their mooring - stones a little way out , against the fall of night if even by night the trojans will desist from fighting ; we may then draw down the rest of the fleet . there is nothing wrong in flying ruin even by night . it is better for a man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed . ulysses looked fiercely at him and said , do not come whining here , sir facing - both - ways . i hate you worst of all the gods in olympus : therefore speed us still further towards the horses and sleeping - ground of the trojans ordered ? what are their plans ? will they stay here by the ships away from the city , or whether , now that they have worsted the achaeans , will they retire within their walls ? and dolon answered , i will be a trusty comrade , as i promised you from the first i would be . urge on the other achaeans , that we may propitiate the god , who has now brought sorrow upon the argives . so saying he gave the urn over to nestor , who received it gladly . but menelaus got up in a rage . this were well , she cried , protectress of our city , mighty goddess , break the spear of diomed and lay him low before the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
