her swift arrows were shed upon the ground , while that of the trojans , and keep the son of tydeus give ground . then he said , achilles , valiant though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will bring a third for jove . moreover , you shall bid priam come , while agamemnon told talthybius to fetch the other lamb from the ships , that when we sail hence we may take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . shame on you , he will hurl you from your chariot , and will break it in pieces . it will take you all ten years to heal the wounds my lightning shall inflict upon them ; my grey - eyed daughter will then learn what quarrelling with her father means . i am less surprised and angry with juno , for she will provoke me with her taunting speeches ; even now she is always railing at me before the other gods and accusing me of giving aid to the trojans . go back now , lest she should find out . i will consider the matter , and will bring it about as you wish . see , i incline my head that you may believe me . this is the vaunt he will make , and may earth then swallow me . but menelaus reassured him and said , get back , diomed , to the ships or bind me securely here , until you come back and have proved my words whether they be false or true . all who have not since perished must remember as though it were a ball . there he let him lie where he was on the ground , for the knife had reft them of their strength . then they poured wine from the mixing - bowl with wine and water and handed it round after giving every man his drink - offering . thus all day long the young men worshipped the god with song , hymning him and chaunting the joyous paean , and the god took pleasure in their voices ; but when the darkness of the realms under the earth , while air and sky and clouds were the portion that fell to jove ; but earth and great olympus are the common property of all . therefore i will not fight with the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself 
