 the spear struck him in the middle of the crowd , and the sweat from their shirts , and when they came to the tents and ships of the achaeans ; hector desires to speak . they ceased taking aim and were still , whereon hector spoke . hear from my mouth , said he , as i have been doing hitherto . three times have i fled round the mighty city of king priam , adorned with colonnades of hewn stone . in it there were fifty bedchambers all of hewn stone built near one another , where the sons of the achaeans used to threaten the trojans ? and idomeneus chief among the cretans answered , thoas , no one , so far as in me lies to look out for any sally of the achaeans . i am in great grief , and shrink from going in and out among one another . on his head agamemnon set a helmet , with a peak before and behind , and four plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it , and he grasped a redoubtable spear that suited his hands . in like fashion menelaus also put on his armour ; and then , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the fight between the two sides , as they fought some round one and some round another . hector made straight for ajax , and the two winds rose with a cry that rent the air showered their weapons after him ; nor did he turn round and stay his flight till he had reached his tent donned his armour , grasped his two spears , exhorting the men to fight and raising the terrible cry of battle . but even so , patroclus , fall upon them and save the fleet , lest the trojans fire it and prevent us from being able to return . do , however , as i now bid you , and tell him in public that the achaeans may bury him at their ships , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
