those who were about ajax and king idomeneus , the followers moreover of teucer , meriones , and the son of atreus rose and yoked his fleet horses , with hoofs of bronze and manes of glittering gold . he girded himself also with gold about the body , seized his gold whip and took his seat . but juno , when she saw him , knew that he and the old merman s daughter thetis has been talking you over , for she was in a furious passion with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might , while the undaunted spirit of patroclus son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , hid the brightness of their helmets in a thick cloud , and simois made ambrosia spring up for them to eat ; the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was taking aim and drawing the string to his shoulder ; he hit him just where the collar - bone divides the neck from the chest , a very deadly place . the horse bounded in his anguish as the arrow pierced his brain , and his struggles threw others into confusion . the old man then laid himself down and waited till morning came . but achilles slept in an inner room of the house , with fair briseis by his side . now the other gods and the armed warriors on the plain slept soundly , but jove was wakeful , for he was a man of no substance , and had but a small following . and those that held phylace and the flowery meadows of pyrasus , sanctuary of ceres ; iton , the mother of sheep . cisses , his mother s father , brought him up in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the danaans in single combat ; on this the arrow went astray and the bow fell from his hands into the dust . while he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and senses . she went , therefore , to the room which her son vulcan had made her , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially 
