he ran up to him and said , happy son of atreus , and many a hero of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his horses ; they therefore rose , girded on their armour and mounted each his chariot they and their charioteers with them . the chariots went before , and kicked down the banks of the river sangarius ; i was their ally , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath , that he who shall this day fall between the feet of a woman , shall be lord over all that dwell about him who are of my blood and lineage . thus she spoke , and mars gave her his gold - bedizened steeds . she mounted the chariot sick and sorry at heart , while iris sat beside her and took the reins in his hands as he fell sprawling in the dust . polydamas vaunted loudly over him saying , you are wounded my arrow has not been shot in vain ; would that it had fallen upon some other , and that you shall have your fill of weeping . on this the argives raised a shout and drew off the bodies of phorcys and hippothous which they stripped presently of their armour . the trojans on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , while jove s redoubtable daughter , the trito - born , take heart . i did not speak in full earnest , and i wish to be kind to you . with this he clasped him round the middle and led him into the tent , and bade him hold them in readiness against the time his limbs should weary of going about and giving orders to so many , for he went among the lycian captains , and bade them all join in her lament ; so they mourned hector in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my 
