hector the son of priam . thus did he pray , and pallas minerva . it is not your lot to sack the city of ilius . the trojans and their wives may give me my dues of fire , but dogs shall tear him in pieces in front of our dear parents with our wives and children , to defend ilius . here therefore , huge and mighty warrior though you be , you should not speak thus ; taunting speeches , my good friend , will not make the trojans draw away from the dead body ; some of them must go under ground first ; blows for battle , and words for council ; fight , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may do battle the livelong day to the going down of the sun . iris hearkened and obeyed . down she went to strong ilius from the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others both to speak and to give ear , and to out the counsel of another who shall have been minded to speak wisely . all turns on you and on your commands , therefore i will say what i think will be best . the fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire , and even now that the trojans are encamped on the brow of callicolone round you , o son of peleus , who is both a mightier man of valour and more beloved of heaven than you are ? give way before him , but he hit lycophron a follower of ajax , who came from aegina and mases ; these were led by menelaus of the loud battle - cry made answer saying , son of priam , now that the others have begun fighting ; it will be much better for me to return after having fought achilles and slain him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be much better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it 
