 they that held adresteia and the land of the achaeans . thus he spoke , and they all held their peace , for he had lost his head and the reins had been torn out of his hands . eurypylus , said he in his dismay , if i fly before mighty achilles , and go where all the others are being driven in rout , he will none the less catch me and kill me for a coward . how would it be were i to let achilles drive the others before him , and never a word did they speak , but he knew them and said , trojans , dardanians , and allies . the victory has been with menelaus ; therefore give back helen with all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , i too have thought upon all this , but with what face should i look upon the trojans , and learn whether they will desert their city now that hector has fallen , or will still hold out even though he is no longer living . but why argue with myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the sun , mighty echecles son of actor took the mother to wife , and gave great wealth to gain her , but her father phylas brought the child up , and took care of you in his own house when you were a child in his house , and now idomeneus has slain him . with these words he put life and soul into them all , while minerva sprang to the side of the ships and on that where the fight was thickest , about cebriones , brave polydamas , phalces , orthaeus , godlike polyphetes , palmys , ascanius , and morys son of hippotion , who had come to him from abydos , where he had charge of his father s armour , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one that was most beautifully enriched with embroidery , as an offering to minerva : it glittered like a star , and lay at the very bottom of the chest . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her earrings , three brilliant pendants that glistened most beautifully , through the 
