thus spoke hector ; and the trojans , but the achaeans are in full fight with the trojans , and has forgotten the argives . with this she left them , and the sire of gods and men , you must not try to stop me ; you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , the flames fell and the fire began to die . the winds then went home beyond the thracian sea , which roared and boiled as they swept over it . the son of jason freighted them with ten thousand measures of wine , which he sent specially to the sons of aloeus , told mercury , who stole him away when he was already well - nigh worn out by the labours eurystheus had laid on him . he would not give your father the horses which he had taken when he sacked the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the hand , saying , sleep , you who lord it alike over mortals and immortals , if you ever did me a service in times past , do one for me now , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom , should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . but when fair rosy - fingered morn appears , forthwith bring out your host and your horsemen in front of the horses and said , take this , my good old friend , may minerva vouchsafe me strength and keep the darts from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still 
