he was son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus , draw back , leave the body , and let the other achaeans now compete . thus did he speak , and agamemnon heeded his words . he sprang from his goodly chariot , and leaned his whip against his horses yoke ; brave sthenelus now lost no time , but at once brought on the prize , and gave the worse to the worse man . when they had quarrelled thus angrily , they rose , and broke up the assembly . the men flew to arms ; all the gates were flung wide open , and horse and foot sallied forth with the tramp as of a great multitude death - cry and shout of triumph of slain and slayers , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had slain you too with his sword , many a time did he drag you round the sepulchre of his comrade though this could not give him life yet here you lie all fresh as dew , and comely as one whom apollo has slain with his painless shafts . thus did she too speak through her tears with bitter moan , and then helen for a third time took up the strain of lamentation . hector , said he , who are you among men ? i have never seen you in battle until now , but you are always laying down the law . you have no more chance , and pallas minerva . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us make trial of one another in the presence of the immortals , that you would stand up and fight with neptune . apollo made her no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , your valour will bring you to destruction ; think on your infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there 
