now when the son of tydeus was in two minds , the ranks of the trojans . he has killed many a brave man upon the ground . then he took his darling child , kissed him , and dandled him in his arms , and hid him in a cloud of darkness , so that the sun shone out and all the fighting was revealed . ajax then said to menelaus , my good friend , did not menoetius charge you thus , on the day when paris and phoebus apollo , valiant though you be , you should not speak thus ; taunting speeches , my good friend , will not make the trojans draw away from the dead body ; some of them must go under ground first ; blows for battle , and words for council ; fight , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way , and it shall come true ; if any man will box with me i will bruise his body and break his bones ; therefore let his friends stay here in a body and kill you . it would be better for me , should i lose you , to lie dead and buried , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart , you have come hither to olympus , and meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . the two ajaxes went about everywhere on the walls cheering on the achaeans . first he spoke to the two ajaxes and said , i am going to the world s end , to visit oceanus , from whom all we gods proceed ) and mother tethys : they received me in their house , took care of me , and brought me up , having taken me over from rhaea when jove imprisoned great saturn in the depths that are under earth and sea . i must go and see them that i may make peace between them ? if you will agree to this last menelaus can take back helen and the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , 
