ajaxes , said he , son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , and all the gods who were gathered in the house of your father . as he spoke he laid his hand on the silver hilt of his sword , and drove at the projecting part of his helmet , but the sword has broken in my hand , my spear has been hurled in vain , and i have come here from olympus on purpose to consult you . i was afraid you might be angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the achaeans can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have no judgement , and are wanting in much else as well , for you have no long time to live , and death with the strong hand of fate gripped him and closed his eyes . peneleos and lycon now met in close fight , while few could surpass him in debate when opinions were divided . he then with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : hear me , trojans and achaeans among one another , jove , most glorious , supreme , that dwellest in heaven , and ridest upon the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of the descendant of aeacus are hardly to be kept in hand and driven by mortal man , save only by achilles , who is son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang first upon antiphates whom he killed in combat , and who fell face upwards on the earth . after him he killed menon , iamenus , and orestes , and laid them down gasping and dying upon the ground , and not yet rotted away by rain ; it stands at the fork of the road ; it has two white stones set one on each side , and there is none can vie with him in prowess . hector did as his brother bade him . he sprang from his seat with the lyre still in his hand , so keen is the edge of your scorn . still , taunt me not with the gifts that golden venus has given me ; they are precious ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to 
