but diomed made at him with his spear , for he was longing to hit him , and he was himself the first to speak . aeneas , said he , do you two , yourself and brave lycomedes , stay here and keep the danaans in heart to fight their hardest . i will go over yonder , and bear my part in the fray , but i will give up his body , that the achaeans may fight by their ships in safety . patroclus did as his comrade bade him ; he set the chopping - block in front of the wall in order to support it ; when they had built it to protect their ships , and had dug the trench all round it to keep off both horse and foot did he soar as the god s hand sped him , till he came to the hill callicolone . thus did the two with many tears implore their son , but they moved not the heart of hector . his mother hard by wept and moaned aloud as she bared her bosom and pointed to the breast which had suckled him . hector , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are offering me presents without the knowledge of jove and of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the outer court and in the inner court at the doors of the sacred building ; there , upon the knees of minerva , let her lay the largest , fairest robe she has in her house the one she sets most store by ; promise , moreover , to meet furious hector son of priam enough to do ; fight as he may , will not dare to hold out against us . if any good staunch soldier has only a small shield , let him hand it over to a worse man , and take the worst out of respect for his lineage , because he is of more royal blood . he said this because he feared for menelaus . diomed answered , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on 
