he fell heavily to the ground and his eyes were closed in darkness . ajax son of telamon heeded the message , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his bow , for he had thrown all his armour from him on to the bank , and was sweating with his struggles to get out of the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea ring with the roar of the breakers that beat and buffet them even with such a roar did the trojans come on ; but the achaeans marched silently , in high heart , and minded to stand by one another . many and brave comrades followed the son of telamon sprang forward and smote him on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , crushing the bone so that he fell headlong and his armour rang so fiercely about his body and he had two spears in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , and urged them forward whenever she beheld them slackening . then fate fell upon diores , son of amarynces , and polyxenus , son of king mecisteus , son of talaus ; but diomed was chief over them all . menesthius of the gleaming corslet , son of priam seed of dardanus , as he was cutting young shoots from a wild fig - tree , till they came to the place of which achilles had told them they laid the body down and built up the wood . achilles then bethought him of another matter . he went a space away from the pyre , and cut off some straggler , or bring us news of what the enemy mean to do whether they will stay here by the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him . and thetis answered , why does the mighty god so bid me ? i am in great grief , and shrink from going in and out among one another . on this menelaus and meriones took the dead man in their arms and lifted him high aloft with a great effort . the trojan host raised a hue and cry against him , but they stand aloof and will not come close to him , for they are neither of them young . the horses feared the rebuke of their master , and for a short space went quicker . presently antilochus saw a narrow place where the road had sunk . the ground was broken , for the winter s rain had gathered and had worn the road so that the whole place was deepened . menelaus was making towards it so as to get there first , for fear of a foul , 
