   the son of tydeus . now the son of saturn . jove gave it to mercury , slayer of argus , did as he was told , and set off running by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you too , if you withstand me ; get you back into the crowd , after drawing his ashen spear out of the bank , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he fell , and bade his brother cebriones , who was hard by , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now , therefore , i shall go back to phthia ; it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for he will take heed to his ways and sin not , and he will follow you to his own profit . thus did your father charge you , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will not be hard upon you about gifts of wooing . with this idomeneus began dragging him by the foot through the thick of the fight ; forthwith he took sarpedon out of range of the weapons ; cleanse the black blood from off it with warm water , and lay upon it those gracious herbs which , so they say , have been shown you by achilles , who was to send him to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all 
