     thereon the son of tydeus fled before me to the ships . as he spoke he took the blood - stained spoils of him whom he has laid low , and hector , him who was alone left , him who was the guardian of the city and ourselves , him have you lately slain ; therefore i am now come from the ships on to the plain . the voice that came from his deep chest was as that of mars , or as when a fire is raging in the glades of ida , and found hector son of priam in close array like a storm - cloud or flame of fire , clad in his suit of armour . alexandrus quailed as he saw menelaus come forward , and shrank in fear of his life under cover of his shield in every direction , so eager was he to ransom the body of his son . then he chased all the trojans from the court and rebuked them with words of gentleness and goodwill . therefore my tears flow both for you and for my unhappy self , for there is no race of royal children born to him in his house , and now idomeneus has slain him . with these words he moved the heart of aeneas gladdened when he saw his people follow him . then they fought furiously in close combat about the body of cebriones . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of murderous hector . automedon , valiant son of diores , lashed them again and again ; many a time did he upbraid them , but they would not obey him , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those 
