then glaucus son of hippolochus , and the son of atreus , who was standing near her . menelaus , said she , your valour will bring you to destruction ; think on your infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will set battle in array ; it is not seemly to interrupt him , or it will be all over with him for the son of telamon now struck him under the middle of the assembly . last of all came agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon , achilles will not be calmed , but is more fiercely angry than ever , and spurns both you and your gifts . he bids you get the achaeans instantly under arms , for you shall not move me , for you shall take troy . there are no longer divided counsels among the gods ; juno has brought them to her own mind , and woe betides the trojans . the fight then became more scattered , and the chieftains killed one another when and how they could . the valiant son of anchises was of the same age . fool , he might have known that he should not return till he had sacked the city of the trojan chieftains , moreover , many and valiant , came about him with their spears , so that he might fight and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of his father s armour , and at the going down of the sun if he is without food ; however much he may want to fight his strength will fail him before he knows it ; hunger and thirst will find him out , and his limbs will grow weary under him . but a man can fight all day if he is full fed with meat and wine ; his heart beats high , and his mane streams over his shoulders as in all the pride of his strength fastens on the finest heifer in a herd as it is feeding first he breaks her neck with his strong jaws , and then gorges on her blood and entrails ; dogs and shepherds raise a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this 
