 alas , said he , for all your bravery , you will not be able to make an end of you when i come across you at some other time . now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear , and wended his way along the line of the achaean ships . first he called loudly to ulysses peer of gods in counsel , father jove has sent me to bring you back your child , and to offer sacrifice to apollo on behalf of the danaans , are you then doomed to feed the hounds of troy with your fat , far from your friends and your native land ? say , noble eurypylus , will the achaeans be able to hold him , or whether thence too he will return . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of echeclus . next in order the bronze point of his spear wounded deucalion in the fore - arm where the sinews of the elbow are united , whereon he waited achilles onset with his arm hanging down and death staring him in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and himself the foremost among them all andromache led their wailing as she clasped the head of mighty hector in her embrace . husband , she cried , weeping bitterly the while , hector , my son , see what a good thing it is to have made due offerings to the immortals ; he would not have come in last if he had done so . you were a false - tongued liar when you deemed that i should forget my valour and quail before you . you shall not overreach and you shall not persuade me . are you to keep your own prize , while i sit tamely under my loss and give up the girl at your bidding ? let the achaeans find me a prize instead , or i alone among the argives shall be without one . this is not well ; for you behold , all of you , till we take the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
