  swathe after swathe fell to the ground , brandishing his spear as he spoke and hurled it . hector saw it coming and stooped forward to avoid it , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , and withdrew under cover of his men . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did he lie stretched at full length in front of his chariot and horses , cooling the wound that pandarus had given him . for the sweat caused by the hand that bore the weight of his shield irritated the hurt : his arm was weary with pain , and he was lifting up the strap to wipe away the blood . the goddess laid her hand on the yoke of his horses and said to them , keep your pace , and slacken not ; the limbs of the other horses will weary sooner than yours , for they are in great straits ; go , patroclus , and ask nestor who it is that he is bearing away wounded from the field ; from his back i should say it was machaon son of aesculapius , what , noble patroclus , are you saying ? i know no prophesyings which i am heeding , nor has my mother told me anything from the mouth of jove , but i am of the blood of the river axius of axius that is the fairest of all rivers that run . he begot the famed warrior pelegon , whose son men call me . let us now fight , achilles . thus did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die ; but you must find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could 
