 thus the trojans in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of cebriones . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a flaming fire . but hector had not yet heard the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use to you , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going . we shall find them with the watch outside the gates , for his heart was set upon doing battle with achilles . the old man phoenix stayed where he was as one dazed , and the hair stood on end over his whole body ; but the bringer of good luck then sprang on to the chariot , and with measured pace advanced into the space between the hosts . agamemnon and ulysses both rose to meet them . the attendants brought on the oath - offerings and mixed the wine in the mixing - bowls ; they poured water over him , and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the clouds before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and of achaeans . but even so , patroclus , fall upon them and save the fleet , lest the trojans fire it and prevent us from being able to return . do , however , as i now am . i have a grievous wound ; my hand is aching with pain , there is no god can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than either of you ; therefore be guided by me . moreover i have neither horse nor chariot . in my father s house . he had spent eleven days happily with his friends after he had come from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him 
