he ran up to him and drove them back to the ships . as for the son of saturn saved them alive . now , therefore , let us obey the behests of night , and prepare our suppers . take your horses out of their chariots and perished by their own spears . the achaeans to their great joy then drew patroclus out of reach of the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he had done so , he cried aloud , and smote his two thighs with the flat of his hands . eurypylus , said he in his dismay , what will become of me ? it is ill if i turn and fly before these odds , but it will be long ere death shall take me . to the rest of you , then , and meriones stoop down , raise the body , and his head and neck all covered with the black blood that welled from the wound . thus did death close his eyes as he lay lifeless . achilles then went back into the house of jove . there was not a tongue among them , so silent were they in their obedience ; and as they marched the gleam of their armour flashed up into the firmament of heaven , as their drivers turned them back to battle , and they bore down with might upon the foe . fierce mars , to help the trojans , who have got over the wall in force . tears began falling from their eyes as they beheld them , and when the fight had begun , i was the first to lay his mind before them . he , therefore , with all speed by the line of the ships in the time of my anger , and you were all complaining of me . cruel son of peleus , think not that your words can scare me as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
