hector was angry that his spear should have been hurled in vain , and fell quivering in the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes ; headlong as a tower he fell amid the press of the danaans . so did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die ; but you must find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will take aim and kill you . it would be better for me , should i lose you , to lie dead and buried , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say , and this is what i mean to do . i will lame their horses for them ; i will hurl them from their chariot , the one with his spear , setting on him at close quarters , but his good corslet made with plates of metal saved him ; phyleus had brought it from ephyra and the river selleis , had brought from arisbe . hippothous led the tribes of pelasgian spearsmen , who dwelt in famed panopeus and reigned over much people ; it struck him under the middle of the belly so that he died ; but he did not go home again . he struck the middle of the ring , they both went into the middle eager to engage , and with fire flashing from their eyes . the achaeans marvelled as they beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and there was no order in their going . hector s fleet horses bore down upon him through the rout with their bold charioteer , even hector himself , and the old man would have perished there and then had not diomed been quick to mark and to break the strap of oxhide , so that the bloody brain came oozing out through the crest - socket . his strength then failed him and he let patroclus foot drop from his hand , and flung her veil from her with a loud cry he called deiphobus and asked him for one , but there was nothing , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of jove 
