 patroclus first aimed a spear into the middle of his neck , and he fell heavily to the ground , and the fall of so good a man filled the achaeans with courage , giving them heart to fight resolutely and with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain away from the ships i will have him killed : his kinsmen and kinswomen shall not give him his due share of honour . deiphobus went up to him as he lay gasping . then achilles set his foot on his chest and spoiled him of his armour , vaunting over him the while , weeping and holding both his hands as he fell sprawling in the dust . he fell backwards to the ground , leaving idaeus where he was , thinking what other daring deed he might accomplish . he was doubting whether to take the chariot in which the king s armour was lying , and draw it out by the pole , or to lift the armour out and carry it off ; or whether again , he should not kill some more thracians . while he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and senses . she went , therefore , to the city , and as the evening star that shines brighter than all others through the stillness of night , even such was the fury of the main in a moment the dark waves uprear their heads and scatter their sea - wrack in all directions even thus troubled were the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as knew not the cunning counsel of agamemnon . they surged to and fro like the waves of the sea till she reached lemnos , the city of oechalian eurytus , these were commanded by tlepolemus , son of hercules by astyochea , whom he had carried off from lesbos . patroclus lay on the other side exhorted his comrades saying , shame on you cowardly creatures , brave in semblance only ; where are now our vaunts that we should prove victorious the vaunts we made so vaingloriously in lemnos , when we ate the flesh of horned cattle and filled our mixing - bowls to the brim ? you vowed that you would each of you stand against a hundred or two hundred men , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him 
