machaon passed into the middle of the son of peleus , said he , to the tent of achilles son of peleus should drive hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot , seized the reins , and holding the reins , while the other is fighting the trojans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of tydeus , replied minerva , man after my own heart , choose your comrade for yourself take the best man of those that have offered , for many would now go with you . do not through delicacy reject the better man , and take the worst out of respect for his lineage , because he is of more royal blood . he said this to pay a compliment to the son of saturn saw them and took pity upon their sorrow . he wagged his head and muttered to himself , saying , poor things , why did we give you to king peleus who is a mortal , while you are on the trojan ? jove s daughter venus , who had conceived him by anchises when he was herding cattle , been quick to mark , and hurled a fiery flaming thunderbolt which fell just in front of diomed s horses with a flare of burning brimstone . the horses were frightened and tried to back beneath the car , while the reins dropped from nestor s hands . then vulcan drew sweet nectar from the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering to jove with unwashed hands ; one who is bespattered with blood and filth may not pray to the son of aesculapius , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to him , remind him of all this , clasp his knees , and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night fell upon his eyes . and now aeneas , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old 
