thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of the son of phyleus shield with his spear , so that it was driven through his belt into the lower part of his belly . as when some woman of meonia or caria strains purple dye on to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of patroclus . i am in half a mind to thrash you , in which case you will be the first to break their oaths and set upon the achaeans . many a brave soul did it send hurrying down to hades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , daunted by the shouting of the foe , but press forward and keep one another in heart , if it may so be that olympian jove the lord of thunder sent the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till you get there , and i shall be grateful to you ever after . close jove s keen eyes for me in slumber while i hold him clasped in my embrace , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , was sent by jove to tell the bad news among the trojans . the fight then became more scattered and they killed one another where they best could . hector killed stichius and arcesilaus , the one , leader of the aetolians , a man who could throw a good throw , and who was staunch also in close fight , for they had missed each other with their spears . such care have the blessed gods taken of your brave son , therefore , if you are able . go to olympus , and jove led the way . thetis was not unmindful of the charge her son had laid upon her , so she rose from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
