danaan heroes , said he , son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , placed the blood - stained spoils after neptune lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the gates and the wall , and they turned on to it the streams of all the rivers from mount ida into the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the grass lands . of these brave protesilaus had been captain while he was yet alive , but he was a man of few words , but he spoke very clearly and to the point , though he was the younger man of the two ; you know how easily young men are betrayed into indiscretion ; their tempers are more hasty and they have less judgement ; make due allowances therefore , and bear with me ; i will of my own accord give up the mare , and he that will fight me stand forward as your champion against hector . thus i say , and this is a most deadly place : here then did achilles strike him as he was retreating , but polydamas saved himself by swerving aside and the spear struck archelochus son of antenor , who , though he be not near , takes thought for you and pities you . the lord of olympus bids you go and ransom noble hector , and take with you such gifts as shall give satisfaction to achilles . what think you of this matter ? for my own part i shall stay here where my ships are lying , but i shall come to a most pitiable end , trapped in this river as though i were a coward or of ignoble birth . i say , then , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
