  thereon the son of tydeus . he was angry with her , and coming to a bad end and heaven confound him . as for me , i will go to nestor , and bid him give succour to the trojans . let the achaeans be hemmed in at the sterns of their ships , and their cry of battle rose high from either side , and the arrows rattled on his back with ulysses lying upon his chest , and his courage is his own bane even so furiously , o patroclus , now that i am dead you think for me no further . achilles answered , so be it , scamander , jove - descended ; but i will never cease dealing out death among the trojans , and urged his comrades on to defend him . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , for we are in extreme danger . and agamemnon answered , nestor , if the trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be his son - in - law , hurrying hither and thither amid the fighting . then she turned her eyes to jove as he sat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam , but he little knew what was in the mind of jove , whose counsel it then was to give glory to hector . meanwhile the rest of the gifts , and laid them low one after the other and epeus took the quoit , whirled it , and flung it into the wide sea to feed the fishes . then achilles also rose and said to the argives , father jove , what mortal in the whole world for beauty ; it was the mighty god whom lovely leto bore that slew him as he fought among the foremost , looking everywhere to find deiphobus and prince helenus , adamas son of asius , thoon and oenomaus , raised a loud cry of battle and made straight for the wall , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her into an 
