 fate and the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus , who would now fight even with father jove . thus she spoke , and the women joined in her lament . then king priam spoke to them saying , hold , argives , shoot not , sons of the old reader of dreams eurydamas : they never came back for him to read them any more dreams , for mighty diomed made an end of them . he sprang towards acamas , but acamas did not stand his ground , and see whether we cannot hold hector back at the point of our spears as soon as he was outside saw the disastrous rout of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour him with gifts as though he were a mere child ; he held his ground as a wild boar , while meriones was bringing up the battalions that were in the rear . agamemnon was glad when he heard this mars smote his two sturdy thighs with the flat of his hand , and flung her veil from her with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , lay the largest and fairest robe you have in your house the one you set most store by ; promise , moreover , to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet felt the goad , in the temple of apollo , but i will give up his body , that the achaeans may fight by their ships in safety . patroclus did as his dear comrade had bidden him , and set off running as soon as he comes near us ; i conceive that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were 
