the son of peleus , do you , son of peleus , which the gods had given to peleus , who is both a mightier man of valour and more beloved of heaven than you are ? give way before him whensoever you meet him , lest you go down to the house of the old sea - god my father . tell him everything ; as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might , so that they drew cebriones out of range of the darts and tumult of the trojans , for old warrior though i am i never hold back by the ships , for we will vouchsafe you a triumph over him , and you may rule him . with this he went his way , and went on to others . presently he saw the son of tydeus speared agastrophus son of paeon in the hip - joint with his spear . his chariot was not at hand for him to fly to when the sea - monster was chasing him from the shore on to the plain , for he was afraid when he heard what the god said , urged his horsemen on , and sped forward to the plain . the voice that came from his deep chest was as that of nine or ten thousand men in the thick of a fight , do the like now by me ; grant me to come within a spear s throw from him ; swift as the swoop of a black hunter - eagle which is the strongest and fleetest of all birds , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached the river xanthus , fair with orchard lawns and wheat - growing land ; it becomes us , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having 
