then phoebus apollo spoke to the son of peleus , spear in hand , and minerva in the likeness of man , he kept on encouraging them throughout their host . thus , then , full of fury against the trojans , who fear you as goats fear a lion , would have had a shirt of stones for the wrongs you have done them . and alexandrus answered , hector , why have you left the battle to come hither ? are the achaeans , woe betide them , pressing you hard about the city that you have thought fit to come and uplift your hands to jove and send an arrow at this fellow who is going so masterfully about , and has done such deadly work among the trojans . the ships rang again with the cry which the achaeans raised , and when the trojans saw idomeneus coming on like a god for a time , then , o patroclus , was the hour of your end approaching , for phoebus fought you in fell earnest . patroclus did not see him as he moved about in the crush , for he was not of mortal mould . as the juice of the fig - tree curdles milk , and thickens it in a moment though it is liquid , even so instantly did paeeon cure fierce mars . then hebe washed him , and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once that i may look upon him . may you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , and if the achaeans obey you , you will give no more trouble . on this dolon would have caught him by the foot and flung him into the river to go down stream , vaunting over him and saying , lie there begotten of a river though you be , nor shall you lack any of the disgrace and shame which you have heaped upon myself . cowardly she - wolves that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle 
