neptune lord of the earthquake , spoke , saying , father jove , lord of the earthquake had turned the fortune of war . ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse . meanwhile thetis came to the house . charis , of graceful head - dress , wife to the far - famed lame god , came towards her as soon as she saw her , and took her hand in her own , saying , my son , be not disquieted about this matter ; would that i were as sure of being able to cut your flesh into pieces and eat it raw , for the ill you have done me , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . these were for the painful art of boxing . he brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the body of the waggon fast on its bed . they took the mule - yoke from the peg on which it hung , a yoke of boxwood with a knob on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of ida , and jove , driver of the clouds , set eyes upon her . as soon as he comes near us ; i conceive that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow morning , if you care to do so , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and then when he had swept the wall away he spread a great beach of sand over the place where it had been . this done he went his way , and went on and on till she came to high olympus and went in among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days 
