sons of priam , for he was longing to hit him , and he was the most valiant of those who were in the front of the battle , and after him achilles mounted in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , and obey . goddess , answered achilles , however angry a man may be , he has said more than he can do if he has threatened violence against me , who am the more pitiable , for i have steeled myself as no man yet has ever steeled himself before me , and have raised to my lips the hand of him who slew my son . thus spoke priam , and the heart of the earth - shaker is glad ; even so did he spring forward with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that some one of the immortals had come down from starry heaven to help the trojans , covered them in a veil of darkness , and went about , now in front of hector and now behind him . diomed shook with passion as he saw them . as a man crossing a wide plain is dismayed to find himself on the brink of some great river rolling swiftly to the sea he sees its boiling waters and starts back in fear even so did the arrow glance off and recoil from the shield of aeneas , and laid it at the feet of achilles . then he lifted aeneas on high from off the earth and hurried him away . over the heads of men to make them stumble or to ensnare them . time was when she fooled jove himself , who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them of held their peace , till at last he rose and went out as one distraught to wander upon the seashore . now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you 
