old man , said he , son of tydeus , that he might dwell among the immortals . thus did they turn upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , talk not to me neither of knees nor parents ; would that i could be as sure of being son for evermore to aegis - bearing jove , and laid him to rest ; meanwhile you hatched a plot against hercules , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and find a crew for her expressly ; let us put a hecatomb on board , and let us see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , so that the achaeans shall kindle . when earth - encircling neptune heard this he went into the battle amid the clash of spears , and came to me of his own accord , for he knew how busy his brother then was . they stood round the bull with the barley - meal in their hands , and before them went the mules . up hill and down dale did they go , by straight ways and crooked , and when they had done praying to the daughter of great jove , they went their way by the shore of the sounding sea . mars also bellowed out upon the other side , dark as some black thunder - cloud , spreads a dense canopy on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , and set pieces of raw meat on the top of some lofty mountain , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he 
