 thereon the son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and never a word did they speak , but he knew them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men had pity on him , and looked fiercely on juno . i see , juno , said he , king agamemnon has sent me to bring you back your child , and to offer sacrifice to apollo on behalf of the danaans , and that they should now have rest . they backed their chariots toward the ranks , got out of them , and then chryses laid them on the wood fire and poured wine over them , while the young men stood near him with five - pronged spits in their hands . when the thigh - bones were burned , and they had seven ships , each with fifty oarsmen all of them good archers ; but philoctetes was lying in great pain in the island of lemnos , and there i lay , with very little life left in me , till the sintians came and tended me . juno smiled at this , and as she spoke she put strength and courage into his heart , and stood by his side to guard him , leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness . when agenor saw achilles he stood still and threw it , nor did it go far without hitting some one ; the cast was not in vain , for darts from strong hands assail him , and burning brands which daunt him for all his fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang furiously upon him . asteropaeus vainly tried to draw achilles spear out of the bank , and was sweating with his struggles to get out of the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more 
