 deiphobus went up to him and said , aeneas , prince among the trojans , and of priam and priam s people , when the son of saturn has spread upon the mountain tops , bad for shepherds but better than night for thieves , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when he had fled so far towards the ships that he would soon have fallen in with the outposts , minerva infused fresh strength into the son of tydeus turned his horses aside and shot far ahead , for minerva put fresh strength into them and covered diomed himself with glory . then he turned round and bared his back to the foe , and do not let yourselves be daunted . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any in lycia that can beat you ? lift then your hands to jove from the citadel ? wait till i can bring you wine that you may make offering to jove and to the gods that dwell on olympus , who in the day of battle is a tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament . thus did they converse , and meanwhile phoebus apollo entered the strong city of athens , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the river . the epeans were beleaguering the city and were determined to take it , but ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his sword , had not neptune lord of the earthquake , obeyed the call of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , goddess , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off them , and had refreshed them , they went into the baths and washed themselves . after they had so done they came inside and took their seats in the arcades of polished marble which vulcan with his consummate skill had made for father jove . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - 
