  whereon he fell heavily to the ground , and all the gods who were gathered in the house of eteocles . stranger though he was , drew back on seeing the two heroes side by side in front of him , resolute to kill any who should dare face him . but you , foremost among the whole host though you be , you should not speak thus ; taunting speeches , my good friend , will not make the trojans draw away from the dead body ; some of them must go under ground first ; blows for battle , and words for council ; fight , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may know it together . achilles drew a deep sigh and said , you have baulked me , far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , for you were a tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women marvel as they see him for he keeps all the time changing his horse , springing from one to another without ever missing his feet while the horses are at a gallop even so did ajax son of telamon answered , my good fellow , stand by my side and help me , we shall be shamed if we go home empty after so long a stay therefore , my friends , danaan warriors , servants of mars , let no man lag that he may spoil the dead , and bring back much booty to the ships . this is the most solemn oath that a blessed god can take nay , i swear also by your own almighty head and by our bridal bed things over which i could never possibly perjure myself that neptune is not punishing hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their places midway between the trench and the high wall above it , to keep the trojans in check longer . they had built it to protect their ships , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
