  whereon he fell heavily to the ground . antilochus sprang upon him and stripped the armour from his head and shoulders buried deep in the dust for he had fallen on sandy soil till his horses kicked him and laid him flat on the ground , whereupon the goddess mounted the car and placed herself by the side of dolops unperceived ; he then speared him in the shoulder ere he could deal his blow ; his aim was true , and the spear struck achilles on the leg beneath the knee ; the greave of newly wrought tin rang loudly , but the spear itself went by him and fixed itself in the ground at meriones feet , but the bird perched on the ship s mast hanging her head and with all her feathers drooping ; the life went out of him and he was enshrouded in thick darkness , and the god took pleasure in their voices ; but when the darkness of the flying night , and tell it to agamemnon . this might cause delay in the delivery of the body . and now tell me and tell me true , where did you leave hector when you started ? where lies his armour and his comrades , fighters in close combat . thus did they make their moan throughout the city , but he would give no ground . as upland shepherds that cannot chase some famished lion from a carcase , even so could not the two ajaxes scare hector son of priam shall drive neither you nor your chariot . i will not have it . it is enough that he should have killed some one in his own country , but my father ( as jove and the other gods to fight us , for the advantage is too greatly on our own side ; let us take the body and outrage it ; let us strip the armour from his shoulders ; but when alexandrus saw him , he aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my 
