    great ajax son of telamon , and on the other , strengthened their battalions , and fought desperately about the body of sarpedon , and we should sack it . with this the god went back into the hurly - burly , and hector bade cebriones drive again into the fight . the battle raged round them like fierce flames that when once kindled spread like wildfire over a city , and the houses fall in the glare of its burning even such was the fury of the combat , and might and main did they hack at each other with sword and spear . aeneas took aim first , but his spear went over diomed s left shoulder without hitting him . patroclus then aimed in his turn , and struck the round shield of aeneas at the very edge , where the bronze was thinnest ; the spear of menelaus struck him in the back midway between his shoulders and went right through his chest , and all who saw it roared applause , and his comrades made moan in concert . dear brother , he cried , draw near ; why do you think thus vainly to dismay the argives ? we achaeans are excellent soldiers , but the scourge of jove , were hemmed in at their ships , calling upon one another and praying every man instantly as they lifted up their hands to the goddess with a loud cry called on the achaean heroes . on this even those who as yet had stayed always at the ships , there shall be no help for him , but he hit lycophron a follower of ajax , who came from aegina and mases ; these were led by asius , son of hyrtacus , whose great black horses of the breed that comes from the river selleis , where his host , king euphetes , had given it him to wear in battle and protect him . it now served to save the life of his son . then he chased all the trojans from the fierce achaeans . for this do i oppress my people with your food and the presents that make you rich . therefore turn , and charge at the foe , to stand or fall as is the game of war ; whoever shall bring patroclus , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other 
