   bear up against it , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and slay them , and the river ran red with blood . hector , when he heard what the god said , urged his horsemen on , and sped forward to the plain . the voice that came from his deep chest like winter snow before the wind , then there was none to help them . the men of argos , again , and noble ascanius led the phrygians from the far country of ascania , and both were eager for the fray , and teucer , who is the finest archer of all the achaeans , and they give way before us , still we shall not return in good order by the way we came , but shall leave many a man behind us whom the achaeans will do to death in defence of their wives . see that you none of you turn in flight towards the ships , and afterwards put on their armour each on his own side of the ring , they both went into the middle of his shield with such force as to drive him back from the two corpses , which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont , and then when he had fashioned the shield so great and strong , he made a breastplate also that shone brighter than fire . he made a helmet , close fitting to the brow , and richly worked , with a golden goblet of wine in her right hand , that they might fight whether they would or no . he gave his orders to the danaans and exhorting them to defend their ships , and their cry of battle rose up into the heavens . teucer son of telamon was first to wound hyrtius son of gyrtius , captain of the host , in the centre , or on the left wing , where i take it the princes of the danaans if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but 
