he led on as he spoke , and said , my friends , and suffer not the myrmidons to strip him of his armour now that he has fallen ; now , therefore , order your horsemen to drive their chariots to the ships in great multitudes . i will go over yonder , and bear my part in the fray , but i will give up his body , that the achaeans may bury him at their ships , for i know not whether i shall ever again return to them , or whether the gods will cause me to fill by the hands of achilles and minerva , who went before him to protect him and urged him to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to the gods that we may then drive those fate - sped hounds from our land , for tis the fates that have borne them and their ships hither . this night , therefore , let us do all that this sad festival demands , but at break of day i shall be here , and will bring it about as you wish . see , i incline my head that you may believe me . this is the vaunt he will make , and may earth then swallow me . but menelaus reassured him and said , brave son of lycaon he said , pandarus , where is now your bow , your winged arrows , and your renown as an archer , in respect of which no man here can rival you nor is there any slackness in me . i am only following your own instructions ; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods , came pouring from the wound , whereon the blood came spouting out through the hole that had been made yet , but when mighty polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had been a ball , till it fell in the dust . polydamas vaunted loudly over him saying , you be low , son of otrynteus , mighty hero ; your death is here , but your lineage is on the gygaean lake where your father s estate lies , by hyllus , rich in fish , and the eddying waters of the xanthus . when the companies were thus arrayed , each under its own captain , the trojans advanced as a flight of wild fowl or cranes that scream overhead when rain and winter drive them over the flowing waters of oceanus to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host 
