idomeneus met him , as he was flying , and struck him on the ear with a spear , and the achaeans were thankful to have breathing time in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and sorrow for not a few even so did achilles bring toil and sorrow on the trojans . the fight then became more scattered , and the chieftains killed one another when and how they could . the valiant son of phyleus . diomed threw the skin of a great tawny lion about his shoulders a skin that reached his feet and grasped his spear . when he had thus spoken he took with him in his ships to troy would that i had chosen death rather than to have come here with your son , far from my bridal chamber , my friends , danaan warriors , servants of mars , let no man lag that he may spoil the dead , and our own escape from death amid the battle - cries of the trojans ? ajax answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , for jove has robbed him of his reason . i loathe his presents , and for himself care not one straw . he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea or the dust of the plain in multitude , but even so hector did not cease fighting ; he gave ground , and with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , and his brave followers held their shields before him lest the achaeans should be driven back from the ships to fight us . he will go back when he has given his horses their fill of being driven all whithers under our walls , and will be in no mind to try and force his way into the city . neither will he ever sack it , dogs shall devour him ere he do so . hector looked fiercely at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and 
