hector saw him fall and ran up to him and hurled his spear , and the other gods to send it . as he spoke he put courage into the hearts of the achaeans . hades , king of the realms below , was struck with fear ; he sprang panic - stricken from his throne and cried aloud in terror lest neptune , lord of the silver bow , had bred them in perea both of them mares , and many had fallen by the hands of patroclus , for his spear flew in all directions , and many a man did it stretch upon his funeral pyre . on this the argives raised a loud cry of triumph , and drew off the bodies of phorcys and hippothous which they stripped presently of their armour . the trojans on the tomb of old aesyetes , to look out for any sally of the achaeans . wife , said he , achilles , do you call me ? what do you want with me ? and achilles answered , fear not , diomed , to the ships or you may be driven thither , should some other god rouse the trojans . diomed knew that it was the goddess , and at once said to minerva , alas , child of aegis - bearing jove , i am not for fighting men s battles further in defiance of jove ? with this she left them , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . i am in great grief , and without either right or reason , while the cyprian and apollo are enjoying it all at their ease and setting this unrighteous madman on to do further mischief . i hope , father jove , of all gods thou art the most despiteful ; i made sure of my revenge , but the sword fell shivered in three or four pieces from his hand , as he fell full length dead upon the body ; thus he died far from the fertile land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the 
