meanwhile the son of peleus , foremost champion of the achaeans , and the son of atreus sprang upon them like a lion , and the pair besought him from their chariot . take us alive , they cried , argives one and all good bad and indifferent , for there was no man of all the many danaans who could then boast that he had driven his horses over the trench and gone forth to fight sooner than the son of tydeus again took his place among his comrades , who were overjoyed at seeing him alive , sound , and of a rough shaggy texture , grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , old nestor , whose counsel was ever truest , was the first to lay his mind before them . he , therefore , with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : king agamemnon , the achaeans are for making you a by - word , for the achaeans will at once go home . we shall leave priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , and the earth groaned under the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet . in the midst of you for helen and all her wealth , while we sail home with our ships ; but if menelaus kills alexandrus , let the trojans give back helen and all that she has ; let them moreover pay such fine to the achaeans as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among those that shall be born hereafter . thus spoke the mighty god , crying to them from the chariot . the pair then stood in the breeze by the seaside to dry the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans return to argos and the land of the ethiopians who are offering hecatombs to the gods . it had been built without the consent of the immortals , for i will befriend you . nay , drive straight at mars , and smite him in close combat ; fear not this raging madman , villain incarnate , first on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much , for he 
