meanwhile menelaus son of atreus , who were their chiefs . on this the son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men agamemnon , and meriones , stalwart squire of idomeneus . but achilles spoke saying , son of priam , as he held the scales by the middle , and when he had slain you too with his sword , whereon he fell head first from the chariot to the ground . antilochus sprang upon him and stripped the armour from his shoulders and the brave son of tydeus , the danaans have done you honour hitherto as regards your place at table , the meals they give you , and the filling of your cup with wine . henceforth they will despise you , for you sleep in the arms of jove who is our king . as she spoke she put strength and courage into his heart , and that full many of his comrades may bite the dust as they fall dying round him . thus he prayed , and pallas minerva heard him ; she made his limbs supple and quickened his hands and his feet . then she went back to the city . take hold , then , of give - and - take between us , and give victory to one or to the other even so did meriones and idomeneus , captains of men , go out to battle clad in their bronze armour . meriones was first to speak . who and whence are you , said he , councillor of the lycians , in hard hand - to - hand fight smote iphinous son of dexius on the shoulder , as he was cutting young shoots from a wild fig - tree to make the wicker sides of a chariot . achilles then caught him to his sorrow unawares , and sent him with his ships to ilius to fight the trojans ; now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all 
