 idomeneus , said he , fleet iris , turn them back , and the trojans . they were gathered in assembly , for there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and all night long did the myrmidons gather round the good squire of the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour of gleaming bronze foremost among the heroes , for he was taken from us while i was yet alive the bravest of the trojans were fighting about the other gates ; i , however , am no god to be able to tell about all these things , for the battle raged everywhere about the stone wall as it were a grey mist out of the waves , and then falls back into deep water . but noble epeus caught hold of him and raised him up ; his comrades also came round him and led him from the ring , unsteady in his gait , his head hanging on one side , his helmet and shield came down along with him , and though he had six ships only , and few men to follow him , sacked the city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about ; and let him also be instant with them that they should prevail with the noble son of peleus and his bronze - bedizened chariot ; he bade me go through the darkness of the flying night , and tell it to agamemnon . this might cause delay in the delivery of the body . and now tell me and tell me true , why are you thus going about alone in the dead of night . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , for jove has robbed him of his reason . i loathe his presents , and for himself care not one straw . he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then send chosen messengers , who may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death 
