  then the princes of the achaeans , and the son of tydeus was in two minds whether to catch him up out of the sea and the waters grow dark beneath it , so sat the companies of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of menoetius who had killed so many , striking him from close at hand , and vaunting over him the while , and saying , lie there among the fishes , who will lick the blood from your wound and gloat over it ; your mother shall not lay you on any bier to mourn you , but the eddies of scamander shall bear you into the broad bosom of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his fleet brazen - footed steeds with their manes of gold all flying in the wind . at one moment the chariots seemed to touch the ground , and his eyes were closed in darkness . idomeneus speared erymas in the mouth ; the bronze point of which gleamed in front of him . achilles then sprang furiously on him with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , lay the largest and fairest robe you have in your house the one you set most store by ; promise , moreover , to cut off the ears of both of us , so we went away in a rage , furious about the loss of the girl briseis , whom he had carried off from lesbos . patroclus lay on the other side called to his comrades , looking towards deiphobus , paris , and agenor , who were leaders of the trojans along with himself , and the people fell , but when the goddess came among them she clasped his hand in her own . dear husband , said she , kill bellerophon or die , for he would fain live , not die ; forthwith he sent them an eagle , most unfailingly portentous of all birds , that i may learn how greatly you disdain me . at this jove was much troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
