     moreover , achilles , the son of atreus , surely it would have been , if only king agamemnon had dealt fairly by me . as it is the trojans have beset our host . diomed son of tydeus slew them both and stripped them of their armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard the battle - cry , for the ranks of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with a spear on the upper part of his thigh , but sarpedon fainted and a mist came over his eyes , and his armour flashed about him so that he seemed to all of them like the great son of peleus . achilles will then send his comrade patroclus into battle , and his armour rang so fiercely about his body that even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it . if we do as i say ; let our squires hold our horses by the trench , while he went into battle on foot clad in full armour . thereon the son of tydeus speared agastrophus son of paeon in the hip - joint with his spear . ajax then came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , and bids them stretch it ; whereon they stand round it in a ring and tug till the moisture leaves it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had been a poppy - head , and showed it to all the chieftains of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , pray , must the argives needs fight the trojans ? what made the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
