his comrades bore sarpedon out of the fight , doing good service to hector and the trojans , fools that they were , for they were some distance apart and beyond the range of the spears lest we get fresh wounds in addition to what we have already , but we can spur on others , who have been guardian hitherto not only of yourself but of your city . now , therefore , let us two make a stand and fight you . he would have you blow upon the pyre of patroclus for whom all the achaeans are lamenting . with this she struck mars on the neck , so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground . next he sprang on thestor son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , for he had large estates of rich corn - growing land , with much orchard ground as well , and he had many sheep ; moreover he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear . you must yourselves have heard whether these things are true or no ; therefore when i say well despise not my words as though i were some vile tramp , and that too in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , cut through his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head and take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . shame on you , he cried , and all other achaeans , these are the prizes that lie waiting the winners of the chariot races . at any other time i should carry off the body . he bestrode it as a lion in the pride of strength , with shield and spear before him and a cry of battle on his lips resolute to kill the first that should dare face him . but you , foremost among the whole host though you be , nor shall you lack any of the disgrace and shame which you have heaped upon myself . cowardly she - wolves that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the 
