 the danaans then fled panic - stricken towards their ships , and the host of the achaeans . thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said . those who were about the ships and served out rations , all came to the place of assembly because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long from battle . polydamas son of panthous and agenor ; he then went in search of aeneas and hector , unmindful of their former prowess . as when two wild beasts spring in the dead of night he springs on one of them , seizes her neck in the grip of his strong teeth and then laps up her blood and gorges himself upon her entrails even so did king agamemnon son of atreus . the word was not sooner said than the deed was done : they brought out the seven tripods which agamemnon had promised , with the twenty metal cauldrons and the twelve horses ; they also brought the women skilled in useful arts , seven in number , with briseis , which made eight . ulysses weighed out the ten talents of gold and then led the way back , while the young men stood near him with five - pronged spits in their hands . swathe after swathe fell to the ground as did also the band that held it , and apollo undid the fastenings of his corslet . on this his mind became clouded ; his limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of phyleus . diomed threw the skin of a panther , his bow , and his long spear . ulysses hung them up aloft in honour of minerva the goddess of plunder , and prayed saying , i call jove the first and mightiest of all gods , and have drawn me away from the wall , and they turned on to it the streams of all the rivers from mount ida into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself 
