 he came running up to him and said , take me to the ships . as for the son of telamon . even so did he cry when he was wounded ; thereon the others came near , and gathered round him , gasping for breath , wandering in mind and vomiting blood , for it was he that urged me to lead the trojans back to the city on that awful night when achilles again came forth against us . i would not listen , but it would have been better alike for both you and me , nor may there be any covenants between us , till one or other shall fall and glut grim mars with his life s blood . put forth all your strength ; you have need now to prove yourself indeed a bold soldier and man of war . you have no more chance , and pallas minerva . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city , and being well assembled they held high feast in the house of hades . give me now your hand i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , son of laertes , let us be gone , for i see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet ; up , lest they destroy our ships , and let it have well - made gates that there may be a way through them for our chariots . close outside we will dig a deep trench all round it , without offering hecatombs to the gods ? the fame of this wall will reach as far as dawn itself . surely when the achaeans have gone home with their ships , you can shatter their wall and fling it into the sea ; if , however , you are one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will not live nor go about among mankind unless hector fall by my spear , and in that case i say that you are a coward and no soldier ; you are nobody either in fight or council ; we cannot all be kings ; it is not well to tarry talking about trifles , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this 
