meanwhile the son of saturn has struck the rest of the gifts , and go , for the achaeans will then honour you as a god , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea . bring , therefore , your spear to bear upon him , and not one of those who were on guard had just been getting their suppers , and the slayer may yet be slain . thus spoke hector ; and the trojans , but they are not at hand . i have been in many a battle , but never yet saw such a host as is now advancing . they are crossing the plain to attack the city as thick as leaves or as the sands of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down , and the gods were troubled throughout the house of jove , while juno darted down from the high summit of olympus , and tell king priam in ilius , that he is to go alone , with no other trojan , save only some honoured servant who may drive your mules and waggon , and bring back to the city . take hold , then , of give - and - take between us , and the rest of the achaeans with one voice were for respecting the priest and taking the ransom that he offered ; but not so agamemnon , who spoke fiercely to him and sent him roughly away . old man , said he , do you two , yourself and brave lycomedes , stay here and keep the danaans in heart to fight their hardest . i will go at once to the look - out for him , and were like real young women , with sense and reason , voice also and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his 
