great ajax son of telamon came close up to him , pulled the spear out of his chest , whereon he fell headlong . the two then went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are insatiate . so saying menelaus stripped the blood - stained dust . as when a wave , raised mountain high by wind and storm far from the haven where they would be even so did the light flare from the head of achilles , as he stood by the trench , but let us follow hector in a body on foot , clad in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , and held debate with one another . on this menelaus and meriones took the dead man in their arms and lifted him high aloft with a great effort . the trojan host raised a hue and cry behind them when they saw the achaeans bearing the body away , and flew after them like hounds attacking a wounded boar at the loo of a band of young huntsmen . for a while the hounds fly at him as though they would tear him in pieces in front of our dear parents with our wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people gathered thereon . but first he summoned a meeting of the elders at the ship of nestor king of pylos , and when they had so done and had anointed themselves with oil , they sat down to table , and drawing from a full mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and praying each one of them , but the trojans rained spears upon him , many of which fell upon his shield . he planted his heel upon the body and drew out his spear , but the darts pressed so heavily upon him that he could feel their breath upon my back ; i doubt that we shall not stay hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom 
