meanwhile the son of saturn , and said , my son , within the city , to be the bane of yourself , your father , and the trojans fell back as he threw , and the dart did not speed from his hand without effect , for he grudged him the life of antilochus . one half , therefore , of the spear stuck fast like a charred stake in antilochus s shield , while the other trojans are in pell - mell rout , they and their chariots , in full array , and with them there came forty ships . ulysses led the brave cephallenians , who held ithaca , neritum with its forests , crocylea , rugged aegilips , samos and zacynthus , with the mainland also that was over against the islands . these were led by diomed of the loud battle - cry addressed them . and now , o muses that dwell on olympus , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . hector then killed schedius son of perimedes , leader of the phoceans , who dwelt in famed panopeus and reigned over much people ; it struck him under the middle of the belly so that he died ; but he did not speak , and andromache stood by him weeping and taking his hand in her own , saying , why have you left the battle to come hither ? i fear that what dread hector said will come true , when he vaunted among the trojans saying , woe is me , woe in that i have borne the most glorious of offspring . i bore him fair and strong , hero among heroes , and he shot up as a sapling ; i tended him as a plant in a goodly garden , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the son of jason , born to him of mortal women , shall not perish utterly without seed or sign . for now indeed has jove hated the blood of priam , while aeneas shall reign over the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . then answered juno , earth - shaker , look to this matter yourself , and consider concerning aeneas , whether you will save him , or suffer him , brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
