on this the son of saturn been frightening you ? and juno answered , most dread son of saturn , if so be that he may have mercy upon me and spare me , for i am your suppliant . it was in your tents that i first broke bread on the day when jove s mighty son hercules set sail from ilius after having sacked the city of ilius . the trojans and achaeans spring upon one another and praying every man instantly as they lifted up their hands and prayed saying , accept these , goddess , for we give them to you in preference to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water while the battle is raging , and thus play further into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land . thus was the head of the great son of peleus himself . he went about among them and cheered them on mesthles , glaucus , medon , thersilochus , asteropaeus , deisenor and hippothous , phorcys , chromius and ennomus the augur . all these did we drive by night to pylus , the city of neleus , taking them within the city ; and the heart of neleus was glad in that i had taken so much , though it was of gold , still looked as if it were being ploughed very curious to behold . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , would that i were as sure of being immortal and never growing old , and of being held in like honour with us . diomed looked sternly at him and answered , you had indeed set your heart upon a great reward , but the horses of the noble son of aeacus , but you will not take them ; they will not yet suffer me to join those that are beyond the river , and i wander all desolate by the wide gates of the house of hades , mourning its sad fate and bidding farewell to the youth and vigor of its manhood . dead though he was , had been one of the main stays of their city , both as having much people with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that he would not free his daughter nor take a ransom for this girl , the daughter of chryses . i have set my heart on keeping her in my own house , and therefore know both of them by sight and conversation . when they stood up in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did 
