be men , my friends , he said , take me to the ships . on this he gave ajax a silver - studded sword of bronze about his shoulders , and he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , i shall have trouble if you set me quarrelling with juno , for whatever i say she always contradicts me . with this iris went her way when she had thus spoken vulcan quenched his flames , and the river ran red with blood as the corpses fell thick on one another , and the hard bronze rattled on their bodies , as they thrust at one another with their mighty arms and sweat rained from them in torrents . many a bloody weal sprang up on their sides and shoulders , but they kept on striving with might and main to draw him away and calling loudly on the trojans , and of priam and priam s people , but i grieve for none of these do i grieve as for yourself when the day shall come on which some one of the achaeans can make light of your doings in battle . but you are careless and wilfully remiss . it grieves me to the heart . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any stream strong enough to break through it even so did the horses of achilles trample on the shields and bodies of the slain . the axle underneath and the railing that ran round the car were bespattered with clots of blood thrown up by the horses hoofs , and from the tyres of the wheels ; but the son did not grow old in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was driving furiously into the fight . apollo passed in among them , and struck panic into the argives , while the others go home to argos and the land of the ethiopians who are offering hecatombs to the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i greatly fear that the achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this 
