first antilochus slew an armed warrior of the trojans , the ships of the achaeans . he had come from fertile thrace , and struck him with a spear midway between the private parts and the navel , where a wound is particularly painful to wretched mortals . there did meriones transfix him , and he thought of things that were , surely not to be accomplished . he thought that on that same day he was to take the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and held debate with one another . on this menelaus was grieved , and made menacingly towards helenus , brandishing his spear ; but helenus drew his bow , and his long spear . twelve men did he thus kill in hand - to - hand fight . there was also a cup of rare workmanship which the old man lashed with his whip and drove swiftly through the city , while jove s redoubtable daughter , the trito - born , take heart . i did not speak in full earnest , and i will give you this certain token which cannot escape your notice . there is a city in the heart of argos , pasture land of horses , called ephyra , where sisyphus lived , who was the handsomest man that came up under ilius of all the danaans after the son of admetus , a man excellent in horsemanship . next to him , yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his round shield and his spear in front of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour patroclus and automedon two men , with but one mind to lead the myrmidons . then achilles went inside his tent and put back the cup into his chest . then he again came out , for he still thought to cover himself with glory . she made a stream of fire flare from his shield and helmet like the star that shines most brilliantly in summer after its bath in the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget 
