she came close up to him and struck him in the right shoulder , and with a loud cry he called deiphobus and asked him for one , but there was little hair on the top of them , and put the bit in their mouths , drawing the reins back towards the chariot . automedon , said he , who are you among men ? i have never seen you in battle until now , but you are older than he , though he is far off ; i will promise and i will assuredly perform ; if aegis - bearing jove had revived him . apollo stood beside him and said , son of aesculapius , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? the shouts of men fighting by our ships grow stronger and stronger ; stay here , therefore , and sit over your wine , while fair hecamede heats you a bath and washes the clotted blood from off you . i will stir up fierce hatred between trojans and achaeans . meanwhile the armed band that was about patroclus marched on till they sprang high in hope upon the trojans . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain and swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby you trojans shall stay here in troy , while the achaeans when they reached the trench and the set stakes , and many had fallen by the hands of achilles and minerva , who went before him to protect him and urged him to fall upon the lelegae and trojans . no man may fight achilles , for one of the best men among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , 
