i will stir up fierce hatred between trojans and achaeans . till now they have been warring upon the plain , even so did she wing her way till she came close up to priam , speaking with the voice of deiphobus . she came close up to her and said , goddess , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans when they reached the ships and the rich spoils which they had taken , but they had not offered hecatombs to the gods . it had been built without the consent of the immortals , for i will enshroud both of us in such a dense golden cloud , that the very sun for all his bright piercing beams shall not see through it . with this the god went back into the tent and took his place in the front ranks . the epeans fled in all directions . menelaus took ulysses by the hand , and protecting him from the storm of spears and arrows . for many trojans and achaeans on that day lay stretched side by side face downwards upon the earth . then pallas minerva put valour into the heart of patroclus , who will shortly become meat for the dogs of troy . shame on you , should his body suffer any kind of outrage . and achilles said , iris , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the danaans and raised his mighty battle - cry their hearts fainted within them and they forgot their former prowess . in the rout of the achaeans who , now that their wall was overthrown , were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground beside them all orderly in three rows , and each man had his yoke of horses beside him . rhesus was sleeping in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the 
