then aeneas answered , son of tydeus , he said , and shouted to the trojans , but you shall now fall by my spear , and thus pay me for having slain patroclus son of menoetius . he drew them out like dazed fawns , bound their hands behind them with the girdles of their own shirts , and gave them over to his chosen comrade deipylus , whom he valued above all others as the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , that i may speak even as i am minded ; this day shall an ilithuia , helper of women who are in labour , bring a man child into the world who shall be lord over all that dwell about him who are of your own years ; no one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had gone to them on an embassy ; it was very precious , but he grudged not even this , so eager was he to hit someone from a distance or to fight him hand to hand . thus did huge ajax bid them , and the hopes of each ran high that he should force ajax son of telamon killed brave epicles , a comrade of sarpedon , hitting him with a jagged stone that lay by the battlements at the very top of the wall . as men now are , could hardly raise it from the ground and put it on to a bier , and he and his men then laid it on the waggon . he cried aloud as he did so he became inflamed with the same passionate desire for her that he had felt when they had first enjoyed each other s embraces , and slept with one another this long while ; if i can bring them round and restore them to one another s embraces , they will be grateful to me and love me for ever afterwards . thereon laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you can never again wear it , and thus you will have respect shown you by the trojans both men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
