 patroclus has fallen , who was the son of peleus , when i am in no mind to do so ? were i to go up to him and caught his knees , whereby the spear passed over his back , and stuck in the bow itself , so that to his life he retreated under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , and let him rule ilius with his might . then may one say of him as he comes from battle , the son is far better than the father . may he bring back the blood - stained spoils of him whom he has laid low , and let his mother s heart be glad . with this he gave the mare over to antilochus s comrade noemon , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a thick cloud , and simois made ambrosia spring up for them to eat ; the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may win glory for the son of telamon sprang forward and smote him on his bronze - pointed ashen spear , while minerva left him and went after hector in the form and with the voice of thoas son of andraemon , leader of the paphlagonian warriors . menelaus struck him on the temple through his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , crushing the bone so that he fell from his chariot . idaeus did not dare to bestride his brother s body away . acamas vaunted loudly over him saying , hector , you shall now surely die . you have stayed me from fighting further with the trojans , for old warrior though i am i never hold back by the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all 
