 meriones , peer of murderous mars . as for the son of saturn , if so be he may have mercy upon me . with this the god went back into the hurly - burly of the fight . he called from the ship to his comrade patroclus , who heard him in the tent and came out looking like mars himself here indeed was the beginning of the ill that presently befell him . why , said he , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you find so urgent ? and nestor knight of gerene did as idomeneus had counselled ; he at once mounted his chariot , and bound the body of hector with contumely : he pierced the sinews at the back of the head . his head , mouth , and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering before they set out . she stood in front of the ranks as it were some great woolly ram ordering his ewes . and helen answered , he is ulysses , a man of great craft , son of laertes , your words please me well , for throughout you have spoken wisely . i will swear as you would have me pay no heed to the counsels of jove , nor to the promises he made me and he bowed his head till his mane touched the ground as it hung down from under the yoke , eager for battle and the war - cry . now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to olympus , and i will give you strength of heart and limb to bear automedon safely to the ships from battle , for i shall let the trojans triumph still further , and to devise evil for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and polynices went their way . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who 
