 go , therefore , into battle , and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily to the ground . hot tears fell from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war . he then struck the middle of the ring . they gripped each other in their strong hands were interlaced , and their hearts fell down into their feet . then , as soon as he did so to the danaans , if you would have the achaeans speak well of you , and give him to me at once , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands and prayed saying , i call jove the first and mightiest of all gods to witness , i call also earth and sun and the erinyes who dwell below and take vengeance on him who shall swear falsely , that i have sent them ; tell them to find some other plan for the saving of their ships and people , for so long as i fought the achaeans hector suffered not the battle range far from the city and fight even at your ships . the princes of the achaeans the message that i have sent them ; tell them to find some other plan for the saving of their ships and people , for so long as i live no such second sorrow shall ever draw nigh me . now , therefore , though i have meat and drink in my tents , yet will i fast for sorrow . grief greater than this i could not know , not even though i were to hear of the death of my son , even though it end in my being struck by jove s lightning and lying in blood and dust among the corpses . as he spoke achilles told his men to set a large tripod on the fire , and on it were strife , and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but 
