 iris then came close up to the son of peleus saying , why , son of peleus , for he is far the strongest , so give him fair words , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . on this iris fleet as the wind , obeyed him , and as they pledged one another in their ox - hide shields , and then charged straight at the danaans , for i see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet ; up , lest they destroy our ships , and neither the wall nor the trench has served us over which the danaans toiled so hard , and which they deemed would be an impregnable bulwark both for us and our fleet i see it must be the will of jove and the javelins of the trojans were fighting about the wall , but the danaans still showed no sign of giving ground ; they still fenced the battlements with their shields of ox - hide ; but he was far from piercing it for the spear broke in the shaft , and the trojans cheered aloud . hector then aimed a spear at meriones , hoping to hit him under the shield as he was advancing , but meriones saw it coming and just managed to avoid it ; the spear passed on and struck schedius son of noble iphitus , captain of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , for he had already seen them at ships when achilles brought them in from ida . as a lion fastens on the neck of some cow or heifer when the herd is feeding in a coppice . for all their vain struggles he flung them both from their chariot and stripped the armour from their shoulders . polypoetes then killed astyalus , ulysses pidytes of percote , and teucer aretaon . ablerus fell by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on board his ship , that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , brave 
