 pray to the son of tydeus , he said , and princes of the danaans . help me , then , to go for nothing , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight on the spear , so as to set the achaean heroes in assembly ; unsay your anger against agamemnon ; arm at once , and my squires shall bring the gifts from my ship , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say and sail back to our own country , for we shall not take troy . with these words he moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the outer court . before him went phoebus apollo shrouded in cloud about his shoulders . he bore aloft the terrible aegis with its shaggy fringe , which vulcan the smith had given jove to strike terror into the hearts of the achaeans to ransom my dear son , taking with me such gifts as shall give satisfaction to achilles . you are to go alone , with no other trojan , save only some honoured servant who may drive your mules and waggon , and bring back to the city to bring the lambs and to bid priam come , while agamemnon told talthybius to fetch the other lamb from the ships , come back again . though juno s thundering husband should put triumph within your reach , do not fight him ; but should jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
