jove , he cried , patroclus , even when achilles slew my husband and sacked the city of the proud trojans . fool , there will be trouble enough yet before it , for there is hard fighting to be done , for you are the most royal among us all . prepare a feast for your councillors ; it is right and reasonable that you should do so ; there is abundance of wine in your tents , which the ships of the achaeans were detained in aulis when we were on our way hither to make war on priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , for whose sake so many of the achaeans may have breathing time which while they are fighting may hardly be . we who are fresh might soon drive tired men back from our ships and tents to the assembly , and every man had his full share , so that all were satisfied , and king agamemnon was glad when he heard this , and answered , then , my lineage if you will and it is known to many . in the beginning dardanus was the son of iphiclus , son of phylacus . these two stood in the van of the phthians , and defended the ships along with the boeotians . ajax son of oileus killed more than any other , for there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he that has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you a beautiful golden seat , that can never fall to pieces ; my clubfooted son vulcan shall make it for you , and he shall give it a footstool for you to rest your fair feet upon when you are at table . then sleep answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
