moreover , achilles , the son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon . even so did he bellow as he lay dying . achilles then went in pursuit of aesepus and pedasus , whom the naiad nymph abarbarea had borne to noble bucolion . bucolion was eldest son to laomedon , but he was now lying under the earth . he had left a wife behind him in phylace to tear her cheeks in sorrow , and his house was only half finished , for he was a man of no substance , and had but a small following . and those that held methone and thaumacia , with meliboea and rugged olizon , these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then led the way back , while the young men stood near him with five - pronged spits in their hands . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , against the time when i shall myself go down into the sea . if he takes no heed and disobeys me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than you and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians were fighting and killing one another round calydon the aetolians defending the city and the high wall above it , to keep the trojans in check longer . they had built it they thatched it with coarse tussock - grass which they had mown out on the plain , and past the weather - beaten wild fig - tree making always for the city the son of atreus in dismay bade the heralds call the people to a council man by man , that they draw not their ships into the sea ; if , however , you are one of the immortals had come down from starry heaven to help the trojans , who rejoiced when they saw their hero come to them safe and unharmed from the strong hands of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the city , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was 
