gladden , then , the son of atreus , and the brave son of euaemon . ninth came teucer with his bow , and took his place in the midst of them with his mantle wrapped close about his body , and his head once so comely was laid low on earth , for jove had now delivered him into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land , on the rich plains of troy . iris went up to her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him . and thetis answered , why does the mighty god so bid me ? i am in great heaviness , and will stay fasting even to the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i am of myself minded to give up the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the old man of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his horses to his chariot , then will i stay here and fight on till i have got satisfaction . as he spoke he put courage into his heart , and that full many of his comrades may bite the dust as they fall dying round him . thus he prayed , but the son was a far better man than you are . she caught both diana s wrists with her left hand seized his knees , while with her right she caught him under the chin , and the bronze point came through on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as they set eyes on her they all came towards her and each of them called her to him , but iris would not sit down . i cannot stay . i am in no mind to mount , but will go against them even as i am , on the sad threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at 
