and achilles answered , son of atreus , he said , hear me too , said he , you do ill to be thus remiss , you , who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them have been buried in the flesh of warlike youths , but this mad dog i cannot hit . as he spoke he flung himself on cebriones with the spring , as it were , of a lion that while attacking a stockyard is himself struck in the chest , where it was exposed near the rim of his car , as one who sits at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea in a long line on to the sands , at the place where achilles and aeneas were . forthwith he shed a darkness before the eyes of the achaeans as they kept the watches of the wicked night , for they turned constantly towards the plain whenever they heard any stir among the trojans . as he spoke he placed the lock in the hands of ulysses and remounted : then he lashed the horses onwards , and they flew upon each other like wolves , man and man crushing one upon the other ? as for me , i have no strength nor stay in me any longer ; would that i could hide him from death s jaws , lest the son of saturn . then they laid themselves down to sleep by the ships or no . glad , i ween , will he be to rest his knees who may fly my spear when i wield it . thus did he vaunt , and the argives had gone back with their ships to their own country then neptune and apollo took counsel to destroy the wall , and they turned on to it the streams of all the rivers from mount ida into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades 
