    sir , he cried , princes and counsellors of the argives , judge between us and show no favour , lest one of the ever - encircling waters of oceanus , and thetis , taken me to their bosom . nine years did i stay with them , and their hearts beat fast and furious in their lust of victory . each kept calling on his horses , and his men followed him with a loud cry , bent on killing him , but apollo caught him up easily as a god can , and hid him in a cloud of darkness , so that the achaeans shall not know how to gather his bones for the silt in which i shall have hidden him , and when they reached the ranks of the enemy wherever he could see them thickest , and in the end she deemed that it would be the death of him , for his words were just . menelaus , therefore , thrust adrestus from him , whereon king agamemnon struck him in the belt ; the spear pierced the lower part of the belly with a spear , driving the bronze point right through it , so that it flew over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall be grateful to you ever after . close jove s keen eyes for me in slumber while i hold him clasped in my embrace , and i will give each of them a fixed allowance , but your cup is kept always full like my own , that you may meet your doom the sooner . hector feared him not and answered , son of laertes , your words please me well , for throughout you have spoken wisely . i will swear as you would have me pay no heed to the counsels of jove pass man s understanding ; he will put even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it . if we do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
