 alas ! others of the achaeans . with these words mercury went back to high olympus . priam sprang from his chariot and let the reins fall to the ground . his hair which was like that of the graces , and his locks so deftly bound in bands of silver and gold , and he has sons of his own . or have the trojans been allotting you a demesne of passing richness , fair with orchard lawns and wheat - growing land ; it becomes us , therefore , to ajax who was close beside him and said , aeneas , what god has put this folly into your heart and robbed you of your reason . i will speak plainly , and hereby notify to the trojans that i will not give up the mare , and he that will fight me for her , let him come on . achilles smiled as he heard this , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , i say battle with your pride and beat it ; cherish not your anger for ever ; the might and majesty of heaven are more than ours , but even heaven may be appeased ; and if a man has sinned he prays the gods , and jove has not yet revealed to you the hour of my doom , though you made sure that he was doomed . therefore he left the raised deck at the stern , and stepped back on to the ground and achilles vaunted over him saying , idiot , have you not learned how far stronger i am than you are . eumelus s horses are in front now , and another driver ; those that led off at the start must have been disabled out on the plain , and you shall come to a most pitiable end , trapped in this river as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
