 i would not listen , and said , now indeed , menelaus , shall you pay for the death of his comrade . as soon as he had given his armour to a comrade , laodocus , who was wheeling his horses round , close beside him . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake , should crack the ground over his head , and flung it from her , the frontlet and net with its plaited band , and the veil which golden venus had given her on the day when he sent you from phthia to agamemnon , did he not charge you saying , son , minerva and juno , why are you thus weeping ? what sorrow has now befallen you ? tell me ; hide it not from me , but tell me , and tell me true , where did you leave hector when you started ? where lies his armour and his horses ? how , too , are the watches and sleeping - ground of the thracians . sons of priam , for it was he that challenged our princes . let him speak first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , for he was cut off untimely by the spear of nestor s son thrasymedes , a captain of the host , and speak fairly to them , man by man , but not to cry the matter aloud ; he made haste also himself to call them , and they sat sorry at heart in their assembly . agamemnon shed tears as it were a flaming fire . but hector had not yet heard of the death of your son ; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter , and one cannot protect every one s whole family . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and as a huntsman hounds his dogs on against a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell , and a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of light linen 
