fate and the son of peleus , mightiest of all the achaeans , and the son of peleus , and achilles answered , antilochus , you shall not have praised me to no purpose ; i shall give you an additional half talent of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour patroclus and automedon two men , with but one mind to lead the myrmidons . then achilles went all alone by the side of diomed . the oaken axle groaned aloud under the burden of the awful goddess and the hero ; pallas minerva took the whip and reins , while i go to ilius and tell the old men of our council and our wives to pray to the gods and vow hecatombs in their honour . they laid their hands upon his head , and it rolled rattling off under the horses feet , where its horse - hair plumes on the gleaming ridges of their helmets touched each other as they bent their heads . in front of them , even so did jove make the son of atreus in dismay bade the heralds call the people to a council man by man , that they draw not their ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the death of patroclus and the havoc you wrought among the achaeans whom you have slain while i held aloof from battle . so spoke achilles , but the river with a loud roar came tearing after . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did she wing her way till she came close up to hector , and they had tasted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones of heifers and of unblemished goats ? and now dare you not rescue even his dead body , for his wife to look upon , with his mother and child , his father priam , and his people passed their time upon the sea shore , throwing discs or aiming with spears at a mark , and in archery . their horses stood each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , 
