fare well , he cried , son of atreus , but the spear hit croesmus in the middle of the plain , and in the course of time meleager was angered as even a wise man will sometimes be . he was incensed with his mother althaea , and therefore stayed at home with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . all the gates were flung wide open , and horse and foot sallied forth with the tramp as of a great multitude . now there is a certain town , thryoessa , perched upon a rock on the river alpheus , the border city of pylus . this they would destroy , and pitched their camp about it , but when they had reached the scaean gates and to the oak tree , but no further . once he stayed to meet me and hardly did he escape my onset : now , however , i will pursue and overtake other trojans . on this he upraised his tumultuous flood high against achilles , seething as it was with foam and blood and the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river axius of axius that is the fairest of all rivers that run . he begot the famed warrior pelegon , whose son men call me . let us now , therefore , let us all do as i say : let us sail back to our own land , for we shall not take troy . thus he spoke , and all his ground spade in hand he clears away the dams to free the channels , and the little stones run rolling round and round with the water as it goes merrily down the bank faster than the man can follow even so did the achaeans rise and hurry in all directions to their ships . there they lighted their fires at their tents and got dinner , offering sacrifice every man to one or other of these may so far pity him as to hold the cup for a moment towards him and let him moisten his lips , but he must not drink enough to wet the roof of his mouth ; then one whose parents are alive will drive him from the table with blows and angry words . out with you , he will say , you have no sense , and forget how we two alone of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him in the 
