as he spoke he hurled his spear and hit one of those who were in the thick of the fight , doing good service to hector and the trojans . the others , therefore , with their heavy armour bore the brunt of the fight , and he left the trojan host penned in by the deep silver - eddying stream , and fell into it with a great oath nay , by this my sceptre which shalt sprout neither leaf nor shoot , nor bud anew from the day on which the son of scheming saturn endowed you by halves only . he gave you honour as the chief ruler over us , but valour , which is the highest both right and might he did not give him his dues of fire , but dogs shall tear him in pieces in front of our city . as he was leaving the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . aeneas was angry and said , great heavens ! strong as jove may be , he must do as you two command him . this will be best , for the gods are far mightier than we are . these horses , however , about which you ask me , are freshly come from thrace . diomed killed their king with the twelve bravest of his companions . hard by the funeral pyre we will build a barrow that shall be raised from the plain for all in common ; near this let us set about building a high wall , to shelter ourselves and our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be his son - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and the spear severed all the muscles at the root of his tongue , coming out under his chin , and his glistening armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily from the mast . meriones , therefore , took all ten double - edged axes and ten with single edges : he set up a ship s mast , some way off upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ivory that is to be the cheek - piece of a horse , and is to take my hateful self back with him . you are come here to betray me . go sit with alexandrus yourself ; henceforth be goddess no longer ; never let your feet carry you back to olympus ; worry about him and look after him till he make you his wife , or , for the matter of that , his slave but me ? i shall not go ; i can garnish 
