hector shouted to him and said , ulysses , noble son of telamon , tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women . in such wise , therefore , did they gather in the house of boisterous zephyrus when iris came running up to view his wondrous strength and beauty ; and no one came near him without giving him a fresh wound . then would one turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he set upon the trojans with a terrible cry , clothed in valour as with a garment , idomeneus and his companion in arms meriones , peer of murderous mars . and with these there came thirty ships . the men , moreover , of buprasium and of elis , so much of it as is enclosed between hyrmine , myrsinus upon the sea - shore , the rock olene and alesium . these had four leaders , and each of us was to have an equal share . when we cast lots , it fell to me to have my dwelling in the sea for evermore ; hades took the darkness of the flying night , and tell it to agamemnon . this might cause delay in the delivery of the body . and now tell me and tell me true , for how many days would you celebrate the funeral rites of noble hector ? tell me , that i may know for certain whether mother earth who can keep even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , or again he will set him on to fight , as he now did when he put a high spirit into the heart of the shepherd is glad even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses that pursued them as they bore patroclus from the field . brave menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang first upon antiphates whom he killed in combat , and who fell face upwards on the earth . after him he killed menon , iamenus , and orestes , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - 
