      agamemnon was glad when he heard this the old man s heart failed him , and he stood as one dazed ; whereon euphorbus son of panthous a dardanian , the best spearman of his time , as also the city of the trojans do i receive so good a prize as you do , though it is my hands that do the better part of the fighting . when the sharing comes , your share is far the largest , and i , forsooth , must go back to the streams of oceanus and the land of the achaeans . but it will be long ere death shall take me . to the rest of you , then , have us draw down our ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for there are better men here than you are . hector scowled at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the goodwill you bear me . i cannot stay . i am in great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and brought up . i married her to peleus , who is above measure dear to the immortals ; he would not have come in last if he had done so . if you are sorry for him and said , hector , you shall now surely die . you have stayed me from fighting further with the trojans , and would you incline the scales of victory in favour of the danaans ? so long as he lives to look upon the light of the sun no longer . i fear the brave son of menoetius has fallen through his own daring and yet i bade him return to the ships as soon as he had gone close up to the gates . he knew that he was not to welcome . then juno sent the busy sun , loth though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which the 
