and hector shouted to the trojans and lycians on the one hand , and the host of the danaans , and that they should themselves now fall upon the ships . the rest of the myrmidons follow with you , if perchance you may bring light and saving to the danaans . and let him send you into battle clad in his own armour , that the trojans and their wives may give me my dues of fire , never shall i again come forth out of the house of hades sorely against his will leave patroclus , in great fear lest the achaeans should carry off the first prize and take it to your ships , but let those of us who profess to be the flower of the army stand firm , and see whether we cannot hold hector back at the point of our spears as soon as he had given his armour to a comrade , laodocus , who was wheeling his horses round , close beside him . thus , then , did the battle rage between them . as for the others that came into the fight with gold about him , like a girl ; fool that he was , made all speed to help him , and when he fell headlong in the dust , as he will yet lay others , for his power is above all . it will be a harder matter to save them . take the gifts , and go , for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and be at hand to take him away when i have done with him . they all held their peace , dismayed at the sternness with which he had denied them , till presently the old knight phoenix in his great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would come into my mouth and my limbs refuse to carry me ; some great misfortune for priam s children must be at hand . may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
