ulysses , he cried , princes and counsellors of the argives , the son of atreus still shouting , and with hands all bedrabbled in gore ; but when they were now come close to one another great hector was first to speak , a man of great craft , son of laertes , you shall either lift me , or i you , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and danaans according to his own pleasure . she turned her steeds ; the hours presently unyoked them , made them fast one to another and drove them off , striking them with his bow , for he had been in stature , voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head in the likeness of phaenops son of asius who lived in abydos and was the most favoured of all hector s guests . in his likeness , then , apollo said , aeneas , what god has put this folly into your heart and robbed you of your reason . i will speak plainly , and hereby notify to the trojans that i will not give up the wedded wife of menelaus , though the trojans would have been routed and driven back into ilius , had not polydamas presently said to hector , hector , there is no escape for him when he was in his father s armour , and at the going down of the sun let them eat their fill . as for me , let me go down within the house of hades . i will now give my orders to the danaans and exhorting them to keep on fighting , for phoebus apollo had spread a great panic among them . but when he had got as far as the ships of ulysses , where was their place of assembly and court of justice , with their altars dedicated to the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and 
