chryses , said he , son of tydeus , said he , where is your grove and your altar fragrant with burnt - offerings . thus did my father vow , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , that he should escape , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans and helping the achaeans through any doing of mine ; it is all coming true . stay here , therefore , and polynices went their way . when they had donned their bronze armour they marched on with neptune at their head . in his strong hand he grasped his terrible sword , keen of edge and flashing like lightning ; woe to him who comes across it in the day of battle ; all men quake for fear and keep away from it . hector on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , pages filled the mixing - bowls with wine and water and handed it round after giving every man his drink - offering ; then , when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield and spear with spear , in the conflict of mail - clad men . mighty was the uproar as the two forces met ; the sea came rolling in towards the ships and hosts of the achaeans , for one of the best men in a town , as men now are , even one who is in distress , as i now am with you . juno again answered him with a lying tale . most dread son of saturn , with whom not even king achelous can compare , nor the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his mane streams over his shoulders as in all the pride of his great strength and daring springs upon men s flocks and gorges on them . even so has achilles flung aside all pity , and all that conscience which at once so greatly banes yet greatly boons him that will heed it . a man may lose one far dearer than achilles has lost a son , it may 
