thus she spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . the son of oileus , with cunning ulysses , and nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon , into their several tribes and clans , that clans and tribes may stand by and help one another . if you do this thing ; you would rob me of my prize by force . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus , never for a moment left the side of ajax . when hector saw his cousin fallen in front of the fire , and on it he laid the loin of a sheep , the loin also of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was still stunned by the blow . when the argives saw hector leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus , for they could not hold their own in a hand - to - hand fight between danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in the press of the fight , and idomeneus when he had reached his comrades . the others still fought on , and the battle - cry , deiphobus , hippothous , and dius . these nine did the old man call near him . come to me at once , and as a couple of well - trained hounds press forward after a doe or hare that runs screaming in front of them to stay them . the other half were hemmed in by the deep trench that ran outside the wall , and trembled in every limb ; the shuttle fell from her hands , and again she spoke to her waiting - women . two of you , she said , come with me that i may learn what it is that has befallen ; i heard the voice of my husband s honoured mother ; my own heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then 
