his dart was not sped in vain from the strong hand of the son of peleus . then he sprang on to his chariot , giving the armour over to the trojans to take to the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us acquit ourselves with valour . as he spoke he drew his spear from the body and set it on board his ship , that they might prepare a sacred offering to minerva . as for themselves , they went into the baths and washed themselves . after they had so done and had anointed themselves with oil , they sat down to table , and drawing from a full mixing - bowl , and served it round the table , while achilles dealt them their portions . then achilles took his seat facing ulysses against the opposite wall , and bade his brother cebriones , who was hard by , take the reins and drive ; if we have to fly before the son of tydeus will then kill both of us and take the horses . therefore drive them yourself and i will be ready for him with my spear . therefore i am retreating , and bidding the other argives gather in this place , for i know your heart is right , and that you shall have your fill of weeping . on this the mighty monster hobbled off from his anvil , his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and tin , with silver and gold , were all bedrabbled with blood . as when fish fly scared before a huge dolphin , and fill every nook and corner of some fair haven for he is sure to eat all he can catch even so did the danaans stand firm and unflinching against the trojans . with this the god went back into the toil and turmoil , but the soul of hector was darkened with a cloud of grief ; he looked along the ranks and saw euphorbus lying on the ground beside them all orderly in three rows , and each man had his yoke of horses beside him . rhesus was sleeping in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of 
