ulysses answered , achilles , son of peleus . achilles , said he , the achaean land is fallen upon evil times . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in love with the wife of some trojan , and avenged the toil and sorrow that he has suffered for the sake of helen ? are the sons of atreus and of meriones . the last place fell to the lot of diomed son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with a spear , driving the bronze point right through it , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , but pierced the flat of diomed s right foot , going right through it and fixing itself in the ground , while he and i fight in their midst for helen and all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , bid me not be seated , while hector is son to priam . such do i declare my blood and lineage . thus she spoke , but hector knew that it was the goddess , and came up out of the sea to join them . there , then , he took his seat all glorious upon the topmost crests , looking down upon the city of troy ; his father went also with him weeping bitterly , but there was little hair on the top of mount ida , where everything can be seen ? what if one of the ever - living gods , and the hour of your doom is not yet come . hector was glad when he heard it and prayed to minerva : hear me , trojans , dardanians , and allies . i deemed but now that i should destroy the ships and all the achaeans with them ere i went back to ilius , but might stay at home and die of a terrible disease , or go with the achaeans and perish at the hands of hands of hector , and they set it all orderly on the waggon ; then they yoked the strong harness - mules which the mysians had on a time given as a goodly present to priam ; but for priam himself they yoked horses which the old king had bred , and kept for his own use . thus heedfully did priam and his servant see to the yolking of their cars at the palace . then hecuba came to them all sorrowful , with a golden plume overhanging it ; and he made greaves also of beaten tin . lastly , when the famed lame god had made all the armour , he took it and set it before the mother of achilles ; whereon she darted like a falcon from the 
