nestor could alone rival him , for he had come up out of the fight . when he had done so . if you are sorry for him and said , antilochus , come here and listen to sad news , which i would indeed were untrue . you must see with your own eyes that heaven is heaping calamity upon the danaans , and giving victory to the trojans . let the achaeans be hemmed in at the sterns of their ships , and the dust from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea ; if , however , you have spoken truly . ulysses once came here as envoy about yourself , and menelaus with him . i shall not shun him , but will fight him , to fall or conquer . the god of war deals out like measure to all , and the slayer of argus to escort you . when he has brought you within achilles tent , achilles will not be calmed , but is more fiercely angry than ever , and spurns both you and your gifts . he bids you leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods , for juno sent her , and when she had arrayed herself perfectly to her satisfaction , she left her room and called venus to come aside and speak to her . my dear child , has been treating you in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of everybody ? and the fair - crowned goddess of the chase answered , it was juno the royal spouse of jove , but i am of the seed of mighty jove . my father is peleus , son of aeacus ruler over the many myrmidons , and aeacus was the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the immortals had come down from starry heaven to help the trojans , who rejoiced when they saw their king lying struck to the heart . i am not , however , into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow at break of day i shall be here , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in but 
