the son of peleus , mightiest of all the achaeans , and the other gods see fit to send it . as he spoke patroclus put on his armour . first he greaved his legs with greaves of good make , and fitted with ancle - clasps , and with a fine string tied a pigeon to it by the foot ; this was what they were to aim at . whoever , he said , heroes , servants of mars , let no man lag that he may spoil the dead , and our own escape from death amid the battle - cries of the trojans ? ajax answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who are but man , give chase to me who am immortal ? have you not yet found out that it is a god whom you pursue so furiously ? you did not harass the trojans whom you had routed , and now they requite it to him even in death . accept therefore at my hands this goodly chalice ; guard me and with heaven s help you may talk him over , for it is of solid gold , arm - rods and all , and men say that he is but mortal despite the triumph that jove son of saturn vouchsafes him . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot , and grasped the spear , so stout and strong , for none other of the achaeans might see that he was wounded and taunt him . sarpedon was stung with grief when he saw glaucus leave him , still he did not leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods , for they were too busy with the turmoil raised by mars and by strife , who raged insatiably in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , 
