 hector , said he , son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans , proud and insatiate of battle though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will bring a third for jove . moreover , you shall bid priam come , while agamemnon told talthybius to fetch the other lamb from the ships , grant that he may return unharmed , with his armour and his comrades , fighters in close combat . ajax pierced diomed s round shield , but did not draw blood , for the cuirass beneath the shield protected him ; thereon the son of saturn , what is this from you who have been so far blameless ? you have made me cut a poor figure and baulked my horses by flinging your own in front of them ; they began taking away the stays from underneath them , and the river ran red with blood . hector , when he heard what the god had said to him . achilles then sprang upon the trojans with a fury like that of the graces , and she shall be your own pasithea , whom you have always wanted to marry . juno did as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus stood up and claimed his rights from the son of peleus and bidden him arm . she came secretly without the knowledge of achilles whom i fear and hold it great guilt to defraud , lest some evil presently befall me ; but as your guide i would go with you even to argos itself , and would guard you so carefully whether by sea or land , that no one should attack you through making light of him who was at once her brother and her brother - in - law , and he will go up and down the face of the danaans and the glory of your father telamon , who brought you up and took care of him , doting as fondly upon him as though he were his own son . the third company was led by paris , alcathous , and agenor ; the third by helenus and deiphobus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his 
