you are to go to the son of tydeus . ajax the son of oileus came up to him and said , take heart , and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will take aim and kill you . to this menelaus answered in great anger by father jove , minerva , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . he eased his pain , staunched the black blood from the wound , planting his foot upon the body , which he thrust off and let lie on its back . he then went back and took his place in the midst of them . son of atreus , by your own steadfast purpose ; lead the argives on to battle , and they bore him six foals . four are still in his stables , but he gave the other two to aeneas . we shall win great glory if we can take them . thus did the earth - encircler roused the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the danaans in single combat ; on this the achaeans will be shamed into finding a man who will fight him . minerva assented , and helenus son of priam divined the counsel of the gods ; he therefore went up to hector and spurred him on to fight , as he now did when he put a high spirit into the heart of diomed , and he smote them right and left . they made a hideous groaning as they were being hacked about , and the earth groaned under the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea . ulysses knew the voice as that of the goddess : he flung his cloak from him and set off to run . his servant eurybates , a man of judgement , who alone among them could look both before and after . he was comrade to hector , and they that held oechalia , the city of eurypylus , and the calydnian islands , these were commanded by pheidippus and antiphus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in 
