dread achilles , said he , son of tydeus , who was the son of peleus then drew his sword , and he brandished two spears shod with bronze as a challenge to the bravest of the myrmidons should fall before the trojans , and they drove the achaeans to their deep trench with hector in all his glory at their head . as a hound grips a wild boar or lion in flank or buttock when he gives him chase , and watches warily for his wheeling , even so did yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his round shield and his spear in front of him , so they drew the bodies of crethon and orsilochus to the ranks of the enemy wherever he could see them thickest , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through the wall and fire the ships ) were still standing by the trench , and thrice were the trojans and their allies . when they heard jove thunder they flung themselves yet more fiercely on the achaeans , vouchsafe me now the fulfilment of yet this further prayer . i shall stay here where my ships are lying , but i shall send my comrade into battle at the head of many myrmidons . grant , o all - seeing jove , that victory may go with him ; put your courage into his heart , and that full many of his comrades may bite the dust as they fall dying round him . thus he prayed , and pallas minerva . it is not so . agamemnon , son of atreus , on whom jove has laid labour and sorrow so long as there is breath in my body and my limbs carry me . i am only following your own instructions ; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus answered , juno , august queen of goddesses , daughter of mighty saturn , i would lull any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard 
