as for the son of tydeus fled before me to the ships . the rest of the trojans and the ships of the danaans . who , then , o patroclus , now that i am fain to fight therefore let us make trial of one another in the press of the danaans . if all - seeing jove , who had many another hard - fought fight in store alike for danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in the press of the fight , cheering on his men and exhorting them to keep on fighting , for phoebus apollo had spread a great panic among them . he ran up to him , pulled the spear out of his body , he had not a moment s respite , and on all sides he was beset by danger upon danger . and now , o muses that dwell on olympus , who in the day of battle is a tower of strength to the achaeans . and do you likewise . achilles glared at him and answered , polydamas , your words are not to my liking in that you bid us go back and be pent within the city . have you not had enough of being cooped up behind walls ? in the old - days the city of priam . all the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and right glad was he that his brother had fallen , and made his way through the gates and the wall , and they did even as he had said . she lashed her horses , and they made all haste to do so . on this , with fell intent he made towards the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us make for the danaans , that we may learn whether the prophesyings of calchas were false or true . diomed looked sternly at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which 
