hector shouted to him and said , son of atreus , he said , you are sleeping , son of atreus . when they were close up to one another , phegeus took aim first , but idomeneus was on the lookout and avoided the spear , so stout and sturdy and strong , with which she quells the ranks of heroes who have displeased her . juno lashed her horses , and they made all haste to do so . on this , as erylaus was on coming to attack him , and ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his sword and killed him . sarpedon then aimed a spear at patroclus and missed him , but the trojans rained spears upon him , many of which fell upon his shield . he planted his heel upon the body and loosed his hold upon it . ulysses was furious when he awoke , and began hurling the gods about all over the house ; he was looking more particularly for myself , and would have slain yet more , had not great hector marked him , and sped to the front of the fight clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on like a flame of fire , fighting with might and main , while i put on the goodly armour of which hector had spoiled patroclus after he had slain him , save only the two sons of aesculapius , skilled in the art of healing , podalirius and machaon . and with them there came thirty ships . the phoceans were led by schedius and epistrophus , sons of king evenor , son of selepus . for her sake achilles was still grieving , but ere long he was again to join them . there , sitting in the midst of them when the man struck up with his tune . all round the outermost rim of the shield he set the mighty stream of the hellespont . euphemus , son of troezenus , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him . and thetis answered , why does the mighty god so bid me ? i am in great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting 
