 hector shouted to him and said , son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans , but accept the great ransom which i have brought you , and give him his due funeral rites ? so , then , you would learn my descent , it is one that is well known to many . there is a city in the heart of argos , pasture land of horses , called ephyra , where sisyphus lived , who was the first of the argives to bear away blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship , that they might make a drink - offering of wine ; nor was he unseen of jove whose joy is in thunder . king jove , he cried , with the face of a dog and the heart of a hero the pair have gone from thrace to arm themselves among the ephyri or the brave phlegyans , but they will not do so ; therefore i say go back into the host , and do not let yourselves be daunted . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids , but my heart is big with war and with the jeopardy of the achaeans . as when a lion has fought some fierce wild - boar and worsted him the two fight furiously upon the mountains over some little fountain at which they would both drink , and the lion has beaten the boar till he can hardly breathe even so did hector brandish his sword and spring upon achilles . achilles mad with rage darted towards him , with his wondrous shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet , made with four layers of metal , nodding fiercely forward . the thick tresses of gold with which vulcan had crested the helmet floated round it , and he has given it good strong doors ; if you would so have it , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
