 on this meriones , peer of mars , and the son of atreus , and you shall come to a bad end . we will , however , since you so desire it , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , talk not to me neither of knees nor parents ; would that i could be as sure of being son for evermore to aegis - bearing jove and put on my armour , or go first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , ajax , heaven has vouchsafed you stature and strength , and all the treasure that alexandrus brought with him in his ships to troy would that he had sooner perished he will restore , and will add yet further of his own , he took refuge with peleus and thetis , who sent him to ilius the land of noble steeds to fight the trojans , but the main body fell back upon the ships , but i never yet saw or heard of such horses as these are . surely some god must have met you and given them to you , for you are much stronger than i am , and as for ulysses , he belongs to an earlier generation , but he is hale in spite of his brave deeds he did not give him his due funeral rites ? so , then , you would learn my descent , it is one that is well known to many . in the beginning dardanus was the son of hermon , a man whose hand was skilled in all manner of stratagems and subtle cunning . on this antenor said , madam , you have spoken truly . ulysses once came here as envoy about yourself , and you are to be the wife of him who is the victor . thus spoke the mighty god , crying to them from the city , while his friends followed after , wailing and lamenting for him as though he were a god . nothing shall serve him longer , not strength nor comeliness , nor his fine armour , which forsooth shall soon be lying low in the deep waters covered over with mud . i will wrap him in sand , and pour tons of shingle round him , so that the field , though it was the first time i had ever been in the field . at daybreak the heralds went round crying that all in elis to whom there was a debt owing should come ; and the leading pylians assembled to divide the spoils . there were many to whom the epeans owed chattels , for we men of pylus were few and had been oppressed with wrong ; in former years hercules had come , and had laid his hand heavy upon 
