he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus , but the spear struck him in the middle of the host , and then flew down the wind with a sharp cry . the trojans were now driven back with a shout that rent the skies , while the danaans were crying out for help and being routed , they rushed outside and fought in front of the gates , or they will fling themselves into the arms of their wives , to the great joy of our foes . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , he shall be my son - in - law . i see not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , sitting in the midst of you for helen and all her wealth may go with him who is the victor . we are to swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby you trojans shall stay here in troy , while the others had been also stricken and wounded by them ; but upon the left wing of the dread battle he found alexandrus , husband of lovely helen had hit it with an arrow just on the top of mount ida , where everything can be seen ? what if one of the ever - living gods , for men say that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . the day will surely come when mighty ilius shall be laid low , with priam and priam s people , when the son of saturn has sent you a mighty helper from ida to stand by you and defend you , even me , phoebus apollo of the golden sword , who have been guardian hitherto not only of yourself but of your city . now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are 
