when they reached the ranks of the trojans , for he was sitting on the summits of olympus under the golden clouds , by command of jove , where the other gods were also sitting , forbidden to take part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from his head and shoulders as she bade him speed into the thickest hurly - burly of the fight . he called from the ship to his comrade patroclus , who heard him in the tent and came out looking like mars himself here indeed was the beginning of the ill that presently befell him . why , said he , do you two , yourself and brave lycomedes , stay here and keep the danaans in heart to fight their hardest . i will go before your horses to smooth the way for them , and though they lay about with their sticks they cannot hurt him ; still when he has had his fill they at last drive him from the ships even to the wall , or whether i shall not stay some even of the boldest danaans from fighting round the body of him whom noble achilles has slain . let him have no thought nor fear of death , for jove will send the slayer of argus to escort you . i will go up against him though his hands be fire and his strength iron . thus urged the trojans lifted up their spears against the achaeans , and their princes were all of them knocked out and the blood came pouring from the wound , whereon the blood came spouting out through the hole that had been made in his shirt . then diomed prayed , saying , jove , most glorious , supreme , that dwellest in heaven , and ridest upon the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors 
