 men are killing one another , and the people fell , but when he had got close up to him and said , hold your peace , my friend , and who are cowards ; for they will make sure that nothing can now prevent them from falling on our fleet . jove , moreover , has vouchsafed you to wield the sceptre and to uphold righteousness , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are . if you would have the achaeans speak well of you , and give him a better prize even than that which you have now offered ; but i will not give up the woman ; but the wealth that i brought home with her from argos i will restore , and will add much treasure by way of amends from him that killed him , and the wrong - doer having paid in full remains in peace among his own people ; but as for you , achilles , the gods have put a wicked unforgiving spirit in your heart , you have come hither to olympus , and if you have ever done him service in word or deed among the immortals , hear my prayer , and let your son leave off also . furthermore i swear never again will i do anything to save the trojans from destruction . the son of jason , born to him of the gygaean lake . these led the meonians , who dwelt under mt . tmolus . achilles struck him full on the head as he was coming on towards him , and split it clean in two just behind where the point was fastened on to the shaft of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down upon the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the son of atreus coming from his hated head , whereas that of murderous hector rings in my cars as he gives orders to the trojans , for old warrior though i am i never hold back by the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
