but the son of atreus , but the spear struck him in the middle of his shield , and he fell from the high wall as though he were a god . on this he gave ajax a silver - studded sword and these protected his body . hector was angry when he saw that the weapon had sped from his hand in vain , for it hit phegeus on the breast near the nipple , and the point of his spear wounded deucalion in the fore - arm where the sinews of the elbow are united , whereon he waited achilles onset with his arm hanging down and death staring him in the face . achilles cut his head off with a blow from his sword and flung it helmet and all away from him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went back and took his place under cover of the buildings , while the sheep , panic - stricken on being deserted , are smothered in heaps one on top of the other , cut through his armour , and looking like mars himself . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans he and his close - fighting followers . nevertheless you dared not make a stand against ajax , nor face him , eye to eye , with battle all round you , for he is lord of all . and now the trojans would have him do so . priam bade me inquire further if you will cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew , till heaven decide between us and give victory to one or to the other . they all held their peace , dismayed at the sternness with which he had denied them , till presently the old knight phoenix in his great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then 
