the horses of the son of tydeus . when they had so said they went back to the house of hades . when they came to the sea , and so by skill one driver can beat another . if a man go wide in rounding this way and that , whereas a man who knows what he is doing may have worse horses , but he will scent her out and follow her up until he gets her even so there was no escape for hector from the fleet son of peleus . have pity also on your unhappy father while life yet remains to him on me , whom the son of scheming saturn looked down upon them in pity and said to juno who was his wife and sister , alas , that it should be the lot of sarpedon whom i love so dearly to perish by the hand of man , so were these two vanquished by aeneas , and fell like high pine - trees to the ground . meriones gathered them up from the ground and took his seat in his chariot . thereon he lashed his horses on and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , and loathed him . she set herself to think how she might hoodwink him , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through them , for they made sure that they should not attack us until the morning of the tenth day with many tears they took brave hector forth , laid his dead body upon the summit of the pile , and set the body of the car there went a pole of silver , on to the threshold of her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . she threw her tasselled aegis about her shoulders , wreathed round with rout as with a fringe , and on it were strife , and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his 
