 alas ! others of the achaeans , but agamemnon came running up to him through the thick of the battle . i have come from afar , even from lycia and the banks of the river sangarius ; i was their ally , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of briseus , and he will go up and down the face of the danaans and the glory of the fight is mine . but diomed all undismayed made answer , you have missed , not hit , and before you two see the end of this matter one or other of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the war , but they gave him no heed , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus on against yourself , fool that he is for not reflecting that no man who fights with gods will live long or hear his children prattling about his knees when he returns from battle . let , then , the son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drew the bronze spear from his strong hand and set it on board his ship , that others may see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , so that the empty helmet came away in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the jaws of such a fight and laying about him ; nevertheless , so far as in me lies to look out for any sally of the achaeans . wife , said jove , i can do nothing but you suspect me and find it out . you will take nothing by it , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him . you have left , o hector 
