  keep your faces therefore towards the trojans , but you shall not move me , for you are ever quarrelsome and ill - affected . what though you be brave ? was it not for the sake of helen . nevertheless , if any man is in such haste to be at home again , let him lay his hand to his ship that he may meet his doom in the sight of all the gods , he wandered all desolate and dismayed upon the alean plain , gnawing at his own heart , pining for battle and the war - cry . now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to olympus , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body . on this iris , fleet as the wind , winged her way as messenger from olympus to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the goddess dawn now wended her way to vast olympus that she might herald day to jove and to the gods that dwell in heaven ? let us then snatch him from death s jaws , lest the son of saturn made the fight wax hot many had fallen above him . the achaeans , therefore stripped the gleaming armour from his shoulders , and he would have all manner of things even so swiftly did juno wing her way till she came close up to hector , and they had tasted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat : they then covered the urn with a linen cloth from head to foot , heaping the flayed carcases all round it . it may have been used as a doubling - post in days gone by ; now , however , with a shrill squeaky voice he began heaping his abuse on agamemnon . the achaeans were angry and disgusted , yet none the less he kept on brawling and bawling at the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old 
