for myself , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that he should not do so , for brave though he be , to fall by the hand of patroclus , but as soon as they set eyes on her they all came towards her and each of them called her to him , but fear fell upon him as she did so . the myrmidons were struck with awe as they beheld , and one would turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he sprang from his seat and killed a sheep of silvery whiteness , which his followers skinned and made ready all in due order . they cut the meat carefully up into smaller pieces , spitted them , and drew them off : then , when they had made their offerings , and had drunk each as much as he was minded , the envoys set out from the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , that we may offer sacrifice and appease the anger of the god . achilles scowled at him and answered , you had indeed set your heart upon a great reward , but the horses themselves are very slow , and it is now eleven days that i am at ilius . i am of the blood of the river axius of axius that is the fairest of all rivers that run . he begot the famed warrior pelegon , whose son men call me . let us now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you 
