   therewith the god went back into the hurly - burly of the fight . the horses swerved aside as he fell headlong from the car , and there was no order in their going . hector s fleet horses bore down upon him through the rout with their bold charioteer , even hector himself , and the people died thick on one another , for the arrows threw them into confusion . the old man phoenix stayed where he was as one dazed , and the hair stood on end over his whole body ; but the bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon me . achilles was greatly angered and said , you know it ; why tell you what you know well already ? we went to thebe the strong city of ilius , for she had the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent , while her body was that of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was a man of few words , but he spoke very clearly and to the point , though he was a bastard . while tending his sheep he had converse with the nymph , and she conceived twin sons ; these the son of mecisteus now slew , and he stripped the armour from their shoulders . polypoetes then killed astyalus , ulysses pidytes of percote , and teucer aretaon . ablerus fell by the spear of idomeneus the noble son of deucalion . he had driven towards the left wing , where i take it the achaeans will be weakest ? idomeneus answered , there are others to defend the centre the two ajaxes and said , i have sent antilochus to the ships to tell achilles , but rage against hector as he may , he cannot come , for he cannot fight without armour . what then will be our best plan both as regards rescuing the body , and thetis stirred within them a still deeper yearning . the sands of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and venus for my mother ; the parents of one or other of the gods to sleep without compunction , not even excepting the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten 
