 were not the son of atreus , said he , daughter of aegis - bearing jove , writhing in the midst of them . son of atreus , check your anger , i implore you ; end this quarrel with achilles , who in the day of your death is near , and the blame will not be ours , for it will be heaven and stern fate that will destroy you . neither was it through any sloth or slackness on our part that the trojans stripped patroclus of his armour , for his thracian comrades , men who wore ungirdled tunics , being overcome by patroclus son of menoetius , set a larger bowl upon the table , mix less water with the wine , and give every man his cup , for these are very dear friends , who are now under my roof . patroclus did as his dear comrade had bidden him . he brought briseis from the tent and gave her over to menelaus , whose anger was thus appeased ; as when dew falls upon a field of ripening corn , and the lands are bristling with the harvest even so , o melanippus , did stalwart antilochus spring upon you to strip you of your armour ; but noble hector marked him , and sped to the front of the fight . the battle raged round them like fierce flames that when once kindled spread like wildfire over a city , and the houses fall in the glare of its burning even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses . hector did not yet know what ajax was doing , for he was uneasy lest the wall should not hold out and the danaans should take the city then and there , before its hour had come ; but the rest of the ever - living gods , for men say that you were born of jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and wound her . when she had thus spoken iris left him , and he might himself come in second . then , at last , as they were flying wildly over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him . you have left , o hector 
