  the princes of the achaeans , and the son of tydeus for fear some other of the gods , or go down into the sea . then they offered hecatombs of bulls and goats without blemish on the sea - shore , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans . then hector led the trojans back from the ships pell - mell into the town . thus the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off me in the river and in the evening return to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his son . at first the trojans drove the achaeans back , and they all sat down . agamemnon also bade the achaeans be seated . but minerva and apollo , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . these were for the painful art of boxing . he brought out a woman skilled in all useful arts , and a three - legged cauldron that had ears for handles , and would hold twenty - two measures . this was for the man who came in first . for the second there was a six - year old mare , unbroken , and in foal to a he - ass ; the third was to have a goodly cauldron that had never been on the fire ; it was still bright as when it left the maker , and would hold four measures . the fourth prize was two talents of gold , and the fifth prize , the two - handled urn , being unawarded , achilles gave it to nestor , going up to him among the assembled argives and saying , take this , my good old friend , may minerva vouchsafe me strength and keep the darts from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
