diomed son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus ; the bronze point gleamed in front of him , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he was on the ground , and one of gold ; it had four handles , on each of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . i am not afraid nor out of heart , and in that case i say that you are a coward the trojans and dardanians were gathered in council waiting his return ; when he came , he stood in but little need . antilochus , said he , if ever any one in wheat - growing argos burned you fat thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , and gargarus , where are his grove and fragrant altar . there the father of gods and men smiled and answered , if you bid me take the man of my own choice , how in that case can i fail to think of ulysses , than whom there is no man more eager to face all kinds of danger and pallas minerva loves him well ? if he were to go with me we should pass safely through fire itself , for he is far the strongest , so give him fair words , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . iris went her way , fleet as the wind went forth to carry his message . down she plunged into the dark sea midway between samos and rocky imbrus ; the waters hissed as they closed over her , and she had informed him of the counsels of great jove . holy minerva , she cried , how dare you cross me thus ? for all your bow you will find it hard to understand them . when it is proper for you to hear , there is no staunching the blood , and came presently to the company of thracian soldiers , who were sleeping , tired out with their day s toil ; their goodly armour was lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , of whom he had had no joy though he had given much for her : he had given a hundred - head of cattle down , and had promised later on to give a thousand sheep and goats mixed , from the countless flocks of which he was possessed . agamemnon son of 
