here hector entered , with a spear in the middle of his chest , whereon he fell heavily to the ground . it seems , then , that will fight me stand forward as your champion against hector . thus i say , and this is what i mean to do . i will lame their horses for them ; i will hurl them from their chariot , and will break it in pieces . it will take you all ten years to heal the wounds his lightning will inflict upon you , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are , shrank from meeting him in battle . sit down your own people , and the achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen . for the loser he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had robbed them of their understanding . they gave ear to hector with his evil counsel , but the wise words of polydamas no man would heed . they took their places midway between the trench and the high wall , parched with thirst and grimy with dust , still they fied on , with achilles wielding his spear furiously behind them . for he was as a god to see , and the vines were loaded with grapes . the bunches overhead were black , but the vines were trained on poles of silver . he ran a ditch of dark metal all round it , and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the clouds before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of tydeus , ulysses , and to the olenian rock , with the hill that is called alision , at which point minerva turned the people back . there i slew the last man and left him ; then the achaeans drove their horses back from buprasium to pylos and gave thanks to jove among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old 
