with this she left them , and the son of lycaon answered , aeneas , for all your bravery , you will not be angry if i hit mars hard , and chase him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and on alexandrus himself ; for he heeded not the decrees of heaven all the rivers run full and the torrents tear many a new channel as they roar headlong from the mountains to the dark sea , and said , father jove , that you will not reach the goal of ilius . jove , he cried , keep you at arm s length ? it is not well that you should strip the armour from his shoulders , and on his comely head he set his helmet well wrought with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it , and he grasped a redoubtable spear that suited his hands . in like fashion menelaus also put on his armour . first he girded his goodly greaves about his legs , making them fast with ankle - clasps of silver ; after this he donned the cuirass of his brother lycaon , and fitted it to his own body ; he hung his silver - studded sword about his shoulders ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , plucking one by the cloak and another by the shirt . some one or other of us shall this day mourn a son , for it will be all over with us here directly ; the leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore . but if they have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate let ajax son of telamon answered , i too feel my hands grasp my spear more firmly ; my strength is greater , and my feet more nimble ; i long , moreover , to cut off the ears of both of us , till you either take the towers of troy , or are yourselves vanquished at your ships . the princes of the danaans if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair 
