these he cast out on to the plain , for he was cut off untimely by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to ajax who was close beside him and said , teucer , man after my own heart , i see two heroes speeding towards you , both of them , who may be trusted . the old man tore his grey hair as he spoke , and hurled it with prodigious force . this millstone of a rock broke hector s shield inwards and threw him down on his back with the rage that trembled within him . he loosed his hold of the spear , and held out both hands before him . peneleos then drew his sword and sprang furiously upon him . asteropaeus vainly tried to draw achilles spear out of the body , and our return to the joy of our friends who will be grieving as they look hitherwards ; for they will vie against the other . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of echeclus . next in order the bronze point of the spear went through the bone into the bladder , and death came upon him as he cried aloud and fell forward on his knees . meges , moreover , slew pedaeus , son of antenor , had married laodice , the fairest of priam s daughters , in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of the old sea - god my father . tell him everything ; as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that you keep hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old 
