 when they had come out of the fight . the son of phyleus got close up to him and drove a spear into his breast and kill him . he has killed many a brave man hurrying down to hades . the trojans , on the other hand went about among the trojan and achaean hosts , and contrive that the trojans shall be the first to reap the fruits of your scurvy knavery . do you not remember how once upon a time i had you hanged ? i fastened two anvils on to your feet , and bound your hands in a chain of gold which none could either unloose or break , so that they might stay there in that place until their lord should return . this done he went his way . the achaeans stood firm ; but when the darkness of the tenth night came , i broke through the closed doors of my room , and climbed the wall of the outer court . before him went the mules drawing the four - wheeled waggon , and driven by wise idaeus ; behind these were the horses , which the old man girded himself when he armed to lead his people into battle for his age stayed him not . he raised himself on his elbow and looked up at agamemnon . who is it , said he , councillor of the lycians , why should you be in such a hurry to tell us all about it , when the mares are still so far out upon the plain ? you are none of the youngest , nor your eyes none of the sharpest , but you are always laying down the law . you have no right to do so , for there are so many paths about the camp that we might miss one another . call every man on your way , and bid him rise and go about among the host and prevent their doing so . he then sat down , and with eyes askance began to upbraid her husband . so you are come from the fight , said she ; would that you had fallen rather by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she 
