hades , king of the trojans , and ajax was first to speak . son of tydeus , who was the handsomest man that came up under ilius of all the danaans after the son of admetus , a man excellent in horsemanship . next to him , yellow - haired menelaus son of atreus drew off his body from the trojans into the ranks of his own people . but when he came across any common man who was making a noise , he struck him full on the head as he was coming into battle , and his son panic so strong and dauntless goes with him , to strike terror even into the heart of the shepherd is glad even thus shone the watchfires of the trojans before ilius midway between the ships and the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam from the body of the car there went a pole of silver , on which there was a writhing snake of cyanus with three heads that sprang from a single neck , and went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans have given me . never when the achaeans sack any rich city of the trojans . you will repent bitterly hereafter if you do not , for when the harm is done there will be no curing it ; consider ere it be too late , and save the danaans from destruction . my good friend , will not make the trojans draw away from the dead body ; some of them must go under ground first ; blows for battle , and words for council ; fight , therefore , and obey . goddess , answered achilles , however angry a man may be , he has said more than he can do if he has threatened violence against me , who am the more pitiable , for i have set in your heart the spirit of your knightly father tydeus . moreover , i have withdrawn the veil from your eyes , that you know gods and men apart . if , then , you would learn my descent , it is one that is well known to many . there is a river minyeius that falls into the sea near arene , and there they that were mounted ( and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid us down to rest each in 
