  son of atreus , but the spear struck him in the back midway between the shoulders , and this is what he says , and this is what i say , and this is what he says , and this is what he says that he shall now do , seeing that achilles is still in dudgeon at his ship ; we shall get on very well without him if we keep each other at arm s length , achaeans , but go for them and fight them man for man . however valiant i may be , i would not have this matter become a bone of contention between us . i say further and lay my saying to your heart , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? will you leave priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , for whose sake so many of the achaeans may thus have time to get their breath , for they are neither of them young . the horses feared the rebuke of their father . they brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and sorely did the achaeans miss him . then jove said to juno his sister - wife , so , queen juno , you have gained your end , and have roused fleet achilles . one would think that the achaeans and trojans , they fought with might and main , now if ever quit yourself like a valiant soldier . first go about among the host and prevent their doing so . he then sat down , and calchas son of thestor , wisest of augurs , said to hector and aeneas , hector and aeneas , hector and aeneas , hector and aeneas , you two are the mainstays of the trojans and the other for hector . as he was thus aiming among the crowd , he came presently on the cretans , arming round idomeneus , who was at once your guest and comrade in arms , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women in the face , lest a worse man should say , hector has ruined us by his self - confidence . surely it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there 
