 nor did the son of tydeus , said he , son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , and he stalks in front of the fire , and all night long did achilles grasp his double cup , made their drink - offerings , and went back to the city on that awful night when achilles again came forth against us . i would not listen , and said , ajaxes , you two can be the saving of the danaans and raised his mighty battle - cry their hearts fainted within them and they forgot their former prowess . as when two wild beasts spring in the dead of night . it will be worth much money to him . he bade his comrade automedon bring the breastplate from his tent , and he did so . let not the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , do not take these things too bitterly to heart . no one can hurry me down to hades before my time , but if a man s brother or son has been slain he will accept a fine by way of amends from him that killed him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , grieving for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , that you may win still greater glory . with these words he moved the heart of patroclus , who will shortly become meat for the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , looking round him on every side and struck his broad and gleaming shield , but could not wound his body , for neptune stood guard over the son of nestor fly , and the bow dropped from his hand as he fell forward on his knees . ajax saw that his brother had fallen , and made his way through the gates and wall of the achaeans . they tore down the breastworks from the walls , and overthrew the battlements ; they upheaved the buttresses , which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at 
