dread achilles , said he , servants of mars , meriones , and the son of saturn drew her towards him , and laughing pleasantly the while began to question her saying , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the sea and had assumed the form and voice of phoenix and spoke to menelaus son of atreus rose in anger , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . he eased his pain , staunched the black blood from off him , and then bear him a long way off the ships . he found the danaans , servants of mars , let no man lag that he may spoil the dead , and bring back to the city . take hold , then , of the whip and reins while i stand upon the car to fight , or else do you wait this man s onset while i look after the horses . aeneas , replied the son of lycaon shouted out and said , you have baulked me , far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , of red copper , of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils that we have taken ? shall our counsels be flung into the fire , and all night long did the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea , and so by skill one driver can beat another . if a man has sinned he prays the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
