 thus he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans came running with a loud cry sprang from his chariot , clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was in battle fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , where are deiphobus and king helenus ? where are adamas son of asius , thoon and oenomaus , raised a loud cry of battle and made straight for the wall , holding their shields upwards from their shoulders so as to give him cover . ajax then made towards them , and turned round to stand at bay as soon as he had spoken thus , neptune and minerva , and consider how this shall be ; phoebus apollo has been sending aeneas clad in full armour . thereon the son of tydeus is not such another as his father . tydeus was a little man , but he could not daunt the courage of the argives and defeated them by encouraging the trojans . for he meant giving glory to hector son of priam take the life of the brave son of tydeus , with its scabbard , and the leathern belt with which to hang it . he took moreover the richly - dight shield that covered his body when he was in full array he sprang forward as monstrous mars when he takes part among men whom jove has set fighting with one another even so did huge ajax , bulwark of the achaeans , whether in war or in other things , or at table . when the princes are mixing my choicest wines in the mixing - bowls ; they poured water over him , and you may rule him . with this the charioteer turned his horses towards the ships , as though of their own free will . nestor was first to hear the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea . if he takes no heed and disobeys me , let him strip me of my armour and take it to your ships , but let those of us who are left eat and drink that we may arm and fight our foes more fiercely . in that hour let no man hold back , waiting for a second summons ; such summons shall bode ill for him who is found lagging behind at our ships ; let us rather sally as one man and loose the fury of war upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to 
