he then went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans and free the body of his men , looking round him on every side lest the achaeans should be driven back from the ships pell - mell into the town . thus the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off me in the river and in the evening return to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , encouraged by the charge the gods had laid upon him . even so did he move convulsively for a while , but not for very long , till meriones came up and drew the spear out of his thigh , where the muscles are thicker than in any other part , for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . it would be better for me , should i lose you , to lie dead and buried , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart vex me no more with this weeping and lamentation , all in the cause of menelaus and agamemnon sons of atreus , and all other achaeans , these are the prizes that lie waiting the winners of the chariot races . at any other time i should carry off the body . he bestrode it as a lion in the pride of flight , and crying as they settle till the fen is alive with their screaming . even thus did diomed go furiously about among the trojans . the fight then became more scattered , and the chieftains killed one another when and how they could . the valiant son of phyleus . some one had also better go and call ajax and king idomeneus , the followers moreover of teucer , meriones , and antilochus , all of them mares , and terrible as mars in battle . of the men , ajax , son of telamon , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there 
