 he put courage into the hearts of the achaeans . thus he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans for a long while sat sorrowful there , but they all held their peace , and no man of the achaeans can run against him save only achilles . he said this to pay a compliment to the son of peleus darted away a spear s throw from him ; swift as the swoop of a black hunter - eagle which is the strongest and fleetest of all birds , that you may win still greater glory . with these words she moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , if she will take pity on the town , with the wives and little ones of the trojans from the ships , the dust rose from under them as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans and kill all their chiefest heroes then and there . meanwhile earth - encircling neptune , mercury bringer of good luck and excellent in all cunning all these joined the host that came from the ships ; with them also came vulcan in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and ten talents of gold and then led the way back , while the young men had daggers of gold that hung by silver baldrics ; sometimes they would dance deftly in a ring with merry twinkling feet , as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that the achaeans shall persistently drive the trojans back and keep jove from helping them , he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends 
