 the horses of the descendant of aeacus . when he had got close up to them , and many a hero of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all men , and he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , i shall have the trojans also whom i have slain rising from the world below . heaven and earth were divided into three parts , and each of them called her to him , but fear fell upon him as she did so . take heart , she said , come with me at once to dead patroclus , if so be that you may find it acceptable . all the treasure he took with him the sons of nestor one , antilochus , speared atymnius , driving the point of the spear went through it and staggered him as he was turning back he stumbled against the rim of his car , as one who sits at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea to join them . and those that held nisyrus , crapathus , and casus , with cos , the city of oechalian eurytus , these were commanded by tlepolemus , son of hercules by astyochea , whom he had taken from aeneas , when apollo bore him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and on alexandrus himself ; for he heeded not the decrees of heaven so surely and solemnly do i swear that hereafter they shall look fondly for achilles and shall not find him . in the day of battle is a tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women marvel as they see him for he keeps all the time changing his horse , springing from one to another without ever missing his feet while the horses are at a gallop even so did ajax son of telamon , for jove would have been roused to still more fierce and implacable enmity against the other immortals , but achilles strove onward over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him . 
