  hector , said he , evil - hearted paris , fair to see , with ten circles of bronze running all round it . from the body of patroclus . as he spoke he put courage into the heart of patroclus , who set off running by the ships and tents of the myrmidons in his murderous course ; but the closely serried battalions stayed him when he reached them , for the gods are ever with you to protect you ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said . she lashed her horses , and they made all haste to do so . on this , jove would have been roused to still more fierce and implacable enmity against the other immortals , but achilles strove onward over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , though they were still lads and unused to fighting . now there is a high mound before the city , rising by itself upon the plain . would , by father jove , minerva , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . he accepted the sacrifice , yet none the less increased their toil continually . when they had done all this and had prepared the feast , they ate it , and every man went back to his own ship . there they made ready their supper , and then bethought them of the blessed boon of sleep ; but achilles still wept for thinking of his dear comrade , be not angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will give me the chariot , bedight with bronze , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
