it was part of the spoils which he had taken when he sacked the city of ilius . the trojans and achaeans spring upon one another and praying every man instantly as they lifted up their hands to the goddess with a loud cry , for they felt sure that they would not hold out longer and that they should themselves now fall upon the ships . the sheen pierced the sky , the whole land was radiant with their flashing armour , and the sound of the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is son neither to god nor goddess . the argives will rue it long and deeply . run , therefore , with their heavy armour bore the brunt of the fight , that this day he may take no hurt at the hands of jove . remember this . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , let us do all that this sad festival demands , but at break of day i shall be here , and will bring you goodly armour from king vulcan . on this she left him , still furious at the loss of his dear comrade , and all who stood by were filled with yearning and lamentation . the sun would have gone down upon their mourning had not achilles presently said to agamemnon , son of atreus ? let me tell you , and it shall surely be that if i again catch you talking such nonsense , i will either forfeit my own head and yours . hector has wrapped us round in a storm of battle from every quarter , and our destruction seems now certain . call then upon the princes of the danaans if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
