 sthenelus sprang from his chariot armed with shield and spear , fearing lest the achaeans should be driven back from the ships , the dust rose from under them as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that his limbs could play freely under it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had been a poppy - head , and showed it to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children are not here . ulysses then said , now tell me ; are they sleeping among the trojan troops , or do they lie apart ? explain this that i may understand it . i will tell them in the presence of you all . i will give him seven tripods that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of apollo , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home with my ships , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say , and this is what i say , for i come as a messenger from jove ; he says that the gods are angry with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that he would not free his daughter nor take a ransom for this girl , the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath , he has never gone up into her couch nor been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament . then king priam spoke to them saying , hold , argives , shoot not , sons of the old reader of dreams eurydamas : they never came back for him to read them any more dreams , for mighty diomed made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
