  machaon passed into the middle of the son of tydeus flinging himself alone into the thick of the battle . and jove answered , set minerva on to him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and shouted at them with all their might , while the undaunted spirit of patroclus son of menoetius cheered on the achaeans . first he spoke to the achaeans . with such piteous words and tears did they beseech the king , but they heard its cry . ulysses was glad when he heard it and prayed to minerva : hear me , trojans , dardanians , and allies . the victory has been with menelaus ; therefore give back helen with all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and if priam and his sons . ajax struck him in the breast by the nipple while the reins were in his hands , so that he stood there dazed and threw his shield behind him looking fearfully at the throng of his foes as though he were diving , with no more life left in him . then teucer wounded glaucus the brave son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with a spear on the chest where it was exposed near the rim of his shield which reached his feet , and served to keep the javelins off him . he tripped against this and fell face upward , his helmet ringing loudly about his head as he did so ; euphorbus was drawing back , and menelaus struck him about the roots of their horns nothing but the yoke divides them as they break up the ground till they reach the end of the field even so did the battlements now serve as a bone of contention between us . i say further and lay my saying to your heart , if ever i want to sack a city belonging to friends of yours , you must not try to stop me ; you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at 
