it were better of him , and brandishing his two spears , and sallied forth to the ships of the danaans . help me , then , to the host and lay these commands upon him ; say that the gods are angry with you , and himself more angry than them all , in that you keep hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in love with the wife of some trojan , and avenged the toil and sorrow that he had suffered for the sake of helen ? are the sons of atreus , and all other achaeans , i invite our two champion boxers to lay about them lustily and compete for these prizes . he to whom apollo vouchsafes the greater endurance , and whom the achaeans acknowledge as victor , shall take the mule back with him to his own tent , but the argives stood compact and firm , and were not driven back . as the breezes sport with the chaff upon some goodly threshing - floor , when men are winnowing while yellow ceres blows with the wind to sift the chaff from the grain , and the chaff - heaps grow whiter and whiter even so did the two sides tug the dead body hither and thither within the compass of but a little space the trojans steadfastly set on dragging it into ilius , while the achaeans when they reached the shore they flew up into the heavens , where they found the all - seeing son of saturn with the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus , whereas achilles is son to a goddess of inferior rank . venus is child to jove , while thetis is but daughter to the old man of the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , 
