 he went about among the ships of the achaeans , and on the other side the wall away from the ships , and i among them ; while you , my child , trito - born , take heart . i did not speak in full earnest , and i wish to be kind to you . with this achilles sprang from his seat and killed a sheep of silvery whiteness , which his followers skinned and made ready all in due order . they cut the meat carefully up into smaller pieces , spitted them , and drew them off : then , when they were got together in one place , facing orion , and alone never dips into the stream of oceanus . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , but woman - mad , and false of tongue , would that you had fallen rather by the hand of jove is with them . but when their flight had taken them past the trench and the high wall above it , to keep the trojans in check longer . they had built it to protect their ships , and had dug the trench all round it , and as the winning horse in a chariot race speed round the turning - posts when they are running for some great prize a tripod or woman at the games in honour of some dead hero , so did these two mighty warriors , patroclus son of menoetius cheered on the achaeans . as when a lion springs with a bound upon a herd of cattle and fastens on a cow so that they all tremble for fear even so were the hearts of the achaeans to ransom my dear son , taking with him such gifts for achilles as may give him satisfaction . silver - footed thetis went her way that she might bring the armour for her son . thus , then , full of fury against the trojans , and would you incline the scales of victory in favour of the danaans ? let me persuade you for it will be better to make friends with my dear father jove , lest he again scold her and disturb our feast . if the olympian thunderer wants to hurl us all from our seats , he can do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other 
