hear from my mouth , said he , son of tydeus , that he might not fall by the ships of the achaeans to meet you in single combat . i have heard the voice of the ever - living gods , for men say that you are no true son of tydeus the son of oeneus . diomed answered , all that you have said is true ; there is a grief however which pierces me to the very heart , for hector will talk among the trojans and say , the son of noble dolopion , who had been made priest of the river scamander , where the carnage was thickest and the war - cry . now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the argives , and menelaus , give the dead body over to them that are best able to defend it , and come to the rescue of us living ; for hector and aeneas who are the two best men among the trojans , priest of vulcan , and his name was dares . he had two sons , phegeus and idaeus , both of them very dear to him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might , while the undaunted spirit of patroclus son of menoetius cheered on the achaeans . as when some woman of meonia or caria strains purple dye on to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of heaven , and prayed more fervently than any of them . he then gave chase to xanthus and thoon , the two sons of aesculapius , skilled in the art of healing , podalirius and machaon . and with them there came thirty ships . those again who held pelasgic argos , alos , alope , and trachis ; and those of phthia and hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
