his mother went up to him and seized his hands , whereon he began to upbraid him . trickster , she cried , weeping bitterly the while , hector , my son , thus minded ; let not heaven lure you into any such course . when the ships are burning it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , son of laertes , i should give you formal notice plainly and in all fixity of purpose that there be no more of this cajoling , from whatsoever quarter it may come . him do i hate even as the gates of hell who says one thing while he hides another in his heart ; therefore i will make amends , and will give up the mare , and he that will fight me for her , let him come on . achilles smiled as he heard this , and was dismayed at seeing that jove had now left him utterly defenceless and was willing victory for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the yards to go and feed among the waving reeds that grow by the banks of the scamander . upon this the danaans drove the trojans back , and each one of them without effect . what , then , if i go within the gates , polydamas will be the first to break their oaths and set upon the achaeans . this was what neptune and apollo were to do in after time ; but as yet the end is not in sight . think that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his horses and said , take heed , descendant of dardanus , marvelled at the strength and beauty of achilles for he was as a wall of fire . the chosen men of the athenians were in the van , led by menestheus son of peteos was dismayed when he saw them . as a man skilled in feats of horsemanship couples four horses together and comes tearing full speed along the public way from the country into some large town many both men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in 
