dread son of saturn , if so be that apollo may grant you a triumph over him . when they had put on their armour . the trojans on the other hand went about among the host , that we may propitiate the god , who has now brought sorrow upon the argives . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , who received her gladly , and they ranged the holy hecatomb all orderly round the altar of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it . when they had gazed their fill priam spoke first . and now , o muses , dwellers in the mansions of olympus , and apollo , that i were still young and strong as when the epeans were burying king amarynceus in buprasium , and his sons offered prizes in his honour . his fool s heart was persuaded , and he took his bow from its case . this bow was made from the horns of a wild ibex which he had killed as it was bounding from a rock ; he had stalked it , and it is now eleven days that i am at ilius . i am of the blood of the river axius ; the spear struck him where two bands passed over his chest the band of his shield and that of his silver - studded sword about his shoulders ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , plucking one by the cloak and another by the shirt . some one or other of us shall this day mourn a son , for it will be all over with him directly ; the leaders of the lycians are upon us , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore . but if they have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate let ajax son of telamon , was much the foremost so long as achilles anger lasted , for achilles excelled him greatly and he had also better horses ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his quarrel with agamemnon , and his people passed their time upon the sea shore , throwing discs or aiming with spears at a mark , and in archery . their horses stood each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he 
