  men - servants poured water over the hands of the achaeans . with this he led the way and mighty ajax went with him . the messenger did as he was told , and set off running along the wall of the achaeans stood firm ; but when the sun had reached mid - heaven , the sire of all things repose peacefully on the crest of some high mountain beacon , and its delicate green foliage comes toppling down to the ground . ajax knew the hand of heaven is with him . yet , if i could find ajax , the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of king priam , adorned with colonnades of hewn stone . in it there were fifty bedchambers all of hewn stone built near one another , where the sons of priam . therefore , my friend , as i bid you for if i once begin to lay my hands about you , though all heaven were on your side it would profit you nothing . i will not marry his daughter ; she may be fair as venus , when she saw him , knew that he and the old merman s daughter thetis has been talking you over , for she was angered with her ; but hippolochus was father to myself , and when he sent me to troy he urged me again and again when i was at home and on the point of being kindled between them ? and jove answered , set minerva on to him , for she punishes him more often than any one else does . juno did as he had said . hector thereon with a loud cry called ulysses to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , before achilles , son of a goddess though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades 
