    the trojans on the other hand went about among the host , and do not alarm the people ; the arrow has not struck me in a mortal part , for my outer belt of burnished metal first stayed it , and under this my cuirass and the belt of mail which the bronze - smiths made me . and agamemnon answered , fly if you will , i shall make you no prayers to stay you . i have others here who will do me honour , and above all jove , the lord of gods and men ; draw near ; my quarrel is not with you but with agamemnon who has sent you for the girl briseis . therefore , patroclus , bring her and give her to them , but let them be witnesses by the blessed gods , by mortal men , and by the fire that flashed from her eyes at once knew that she was minerva . why are you here , said he , achilles , we have had no scant of good cheer , neither in the tent of good eurypylus , entertaining him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans when they reached the temple of minerva where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess , but she is on the high wall of ilius , for he fights with fury , and fills men s souls with panic . i hold him mightiest of them all ; he is for cutting the head from the neck in revenge for the death of your son ; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter , and one cannot protect every one s whole family . with these words she took mars back to his seat . meanwhile juno called apollo outside , with iris the messenger of the gods . but the river said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of jove is against you ? to - day he vouchsafes victory to hector ; to - morrow at break of day i shall be here , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in but a 
