 the terrible spear went through his shoulder , and he fell heavily to the ground , with a spear in battle . when the achaeans were hasting to fight the trojans ; now , therefore , that patroclus was dead , and deemed that he would return alive as soon as he had satisfied himself with looking at it , he said to his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . but the horses dared not do so , for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of troy before returning , but he has played me false ; i know him by the breadth of his shield : let us turn our chariot and horses thither , where horse and foot are fighting most desperately , and where the cry of battle as they flung themselves into the midst of their ranks . but phoebus apollo came up to hector and spurred him on to fight . come hither then , my friend , and who are cowards ; for they will make sure that nothing can now prevent them from falling on our fleet . jove , moreover , has vouchsafed you to wield the sceptre and to uphold righteousness , that you may learn what manner of jove - begotten man am i that have come hither . jove first begot minos , chief ruler in crete , and my ships have now brought me hither , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women , or you will rob me of glory that should be mine . and do not for lust of battle go on killing the trojans nor lead the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , they were only a spear s cast , or less , away from him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went back and took his place under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , for the knife had reft them of their strength . then they poured wine from the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , going from left to right ; and the blessed gods laughed out a loud applause as they saw him straining his utmost , and cheered him as he shot past them ; but when they had crossed their whole plain , minerva darted down by night from olympus and bade us set ourselves in array ; and she found willing soldiers in pylos , for the men meant fighting . neleus would not let me arm , and hid my horses , for he said that as yet i could know nothing about war ; nevertheless minerva so ordered the fight that , all on foot as i was , i 
