 sarpedon , said he , son of tydeus , he said , has laid his hand over the city to protect it , and the heart even of hector beat quickly , but he could fight , and rushed madly into the fray even when i told him not to do so , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and then when he had put the goodly armour on the chariot and had himself mounted , he lashed his horses and they flew forward nothing loth midway betwixt earth and sky . as far as a young man can hurl a disc from his shoulder when he is trying his strength . the trojan battalions poured over the bridge , and apollo with his redoubtable aegis led the way . he kicked down the wall of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus . she shot through the sky as some brilliant meteor which the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the tenth day the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and right glad was he that his brother had fallen , and made his way through the gates and wall of the achaeans as they kept the watches of the wicked night , for they turned constantly towards the plain whenever they heard any stir among the trojans . alas , my son , within the city , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women , or you will wound your horses and break your chariot in pieces , which would be sport for others but confusion for yourself . therefore , my friend , as i bid you . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
