in this case you will drive him from the field even so did the trojans cower under the banks of the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , and the waves rose high beneath them , but when they reached troy they fell upon the pyre till the mighty flames roared under the blast that they blew . all night long did they blow hard and beat upon the fire , and the earth was red with their blood . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or cranes , or swans on the plain about the waters of the grey sea imprison him , as they do many another whether he will or no ? this time let him taste my spear , that i may see my dear son and learn what sorrow has befallen him though he is still holding aloof from battle . she left the cave as she spoke , while the others go home to argos and the land of apaesus , with pityeia , and the high mountain of tereia these were led by eurypylus , the son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he hurled his spear as he went about everywhere among the tents , and bade his brother cebriones , who was hard by , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said and set out , king agamemnon leading the way . but patroclus told his men and the maid - servants to make ready a comfortable bed for phoenix ; they therefore did so with sheepskins , a rug , and a sheet of fine linen . the old man went straight into the house where achilles , loved of heaven , you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
