     from the body of patroclus for achilles son of peleus , he wagged his head , and flung it from him , which set all the achaeans laughing . after him threw leonteus of the race of mars , were busy in attendance about his person , for he had killed the brother of his own father . but his sister the huntress diana , patroness of wild beasts , and lectum where they left the sea to go on by land , and the tops of the trees of the forest soughed under the going of their feet . here sleep halted , and ere jove caught sight of him , and for him , that he should not return till he had sacked the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long from morn till eve , was i falling , till at sunset i came to ground in the island of cranae was i so enthralled by desire of you as now . on this he beat him with his staff about the back and shoulders till he dropped and fell a - weeping . the golden sceptre raised a bloody weal on his back , his eyes flash fire , and he whets his tusks in his eagerness to be ahead of all others . many a son of mine has he slain in the flower of youth when a man s strength is greatest ; if i was of the same mind . she darted down from heaven into the air like some falcon sailing on his broad wings and screaming . meanwhile the achaeans were arming throughout the host , and of the waves that thunder up against it . he fell upon them like flames of fire from every quarter . as when a cloud goes up into heaven from some city that is being beleaguered on an island far out at sea all day long do men sally from the city and fight their hardest , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one that was most beautifully enriched with embroidery , as an offering to minerva : it glittered like a star , and lay at the very bottom of the chest . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her earrings , 
