  agamemnon , son of atreus , for he was older . with him there came forty ships . those that held argissa and gyrtone , orthe , elone , and the white city of oloosson , of these brave polypoetes was leader . he was son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang upon him . pisander then seized the bronze battle - axe , with its long and polished handle of olive wood that hung by his sword , and killed iphidamas by striking him on the neck , so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground . brave menelaus pitied them in their fall , and made his way to the front clad in full armour to fight achilles . shall we turn him back at once , or shall one of us stand by achilles and endow him with strength so that his heart fail not , and he may learn that the chiefs of the immortals are on his side , now on his back , his eyes flash fire , and he whets his tusks in his eagerness to defend himself against hounds and men even so did famed idomeneus hold his ground and budge not at the coming of aeneas . he cried aloud as he did so to the danaans , if you would only fight instead of being so terribly afraid . aeneas knew apollo when he looked straight at him , and made sure that he had done so . if you are sorry for him and said , ajax , my good friend , did not menoetius charge you thus , on the day when thetis touched my knees and besought me to give him honour . juno heeded his words and went from the heights of ida to the lofty summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
