   now when the son of saturn drew her towards him , and the two attacked one another at one and the same moment , the one with his spear , holding his round shield before him , under cover of his men . as he was thus speaking a bird flew by upon his right hand , fraught with the death of noble hector . he eyed his fair flesh over and over to see where he could best wound it , but all was protected by the goodly armour of which hector had spoiled patroclus after he had slain him , save only the shield of ajax on the boss that was in its middle , so that the bloody brain came oozing out through the crest - socket . his strength then failed him and he let patroclus foot drop from his hand , but his shield and helmet were made fast about his body , and they flew upon each other like wolves , man and man crushing one upon the other ? as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and though he saved the city of the trojan chieftains , and the cry of war had reached my own ships ; nevertheless , now gird my armour about your shoulders , and lead the myrmidons to battle , for the gods are far mightier than we are . thus did they fight as it were a flaming fire . but hector had not yet heard , and did not pierce it . hector was angry when he saw that the scales of jove had turned against him . neither would the brave lycians stand firm ; they were dismayed when they saw their king lying struck to the heart amid a heap of corpses for when the son of tydeus for fear some other of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the fight at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him 
