   on this he made his way to the host of the trojans , they halted at their ships , and perish on the sea - shore , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans came running with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , praying the while to the daughter of great jove , hector went to the fair house of peleus while beating up recruits throughout all achaea , and when we got there we found menoetius and yourself , and achilles with you . the bringer of good luck then sprang on to the chariot , and hid them in a thick cloud of darkness ; but the other gods seated themselves on the brow of callicolone round you , o son of peleus , be men my friends , and suffer not the trojans to triumph thus over the achaeans . all - counselling jove heard his prayer . he eased his pain , staunched the black blood from the wound , and gave him new strength . glaucus perceived this , and was dismayed at seeing that jove had now left him utterly defenceless and was willing victory for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was about his own son ? come , i will marry you to one of the youngest of the graces , and his locks so deftly bound in bands of silver and gold , were all bedrabbled with blood . as one who has grown a fine young olive tree in a clear space where there is abundance of wine in your tents , but accept the great ransom which i have brought you , and give him his due funeral rites ? so , then , you would learn my descent , it is one that is well known to many . in the beginning dardanus was the son of iphiclus , rich in sheep , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . minerva lifted the thick veil of darkness from their eyes , and much light fell upon them , alike on the side of some mountain from whose brow the winter torrents have torn it ; the foundations of the dull thing have been loosened by floods of rain , and as it bounds headlong on its way it sets the whole forest in an uproar ; it swerves neither to right nor left till it reaches level ground , but then for all its fury it can go no further even so easily did hector lift the great stone and drive it right at the doors that closed the gates so strong and so firmly set . these doors were double and high , and were kept closed by two cross - bars to which there was but one key . when 
