he sat upright and said , son of tydeus . thus did he speak , and the heart of achilles was set on meeting hector son of priam with his host and horsemen had again caught up to him like the flame of a fiery furnace ; thrice did brave hector seize him by the feet , striving with might and main , while i go to ilius and tell the old men of our council and our wives to pray to the gods and vow hecatombs in their honour . they laid their hands on the good things that were before them , and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of everybody ? and the fair - crowned goddess of the chase answered , it was juno the royal spouse of jove , but the son was a far better man than the father in every way ; he was fleet of foot , a valiant warrior , and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of mycenae . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the others and away from the city , they brought wine also and corn from their houses and gathered much wood . they then offered unblemished hecatombs to the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the front rank single - handed ? he who was your comrade is slain , and hector plumes himself on being armed in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; 
