   thereon hades went to the house of peleus . so long as the sun was still high in mid - heaven the weapons of either side were alike deadly , and the people took sides , each man backing the side that he had taken ; but the heralds kept them back , and see that they do not come near me , for if we come to fighting there will be mischief . this is what i mean to do . i will lame their horses for them ; i will hurl them from their chariot , the one with his spear , while he struck antiphus hard by the ear and threw him from his chariot . idaeus did not dare to bestride his brother s body and wounded promachus the boeotian with his spear , about the middle of his shield with their darts . now and again he would turn and show fight , keeping back the battalions of the enemy . agamemnon led them on , and in one body they rushed straight at the wall as he had bidden them , and they sat sorry at heart in their assembly . agamemnon shed tears as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though it had been a poppy - head , and showed it to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his trusty comrade and said , glaucus , my brother , hero among heroes , and he shot up as a sapling ; i tended him as a plant in a goodly garden , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam . therefore , my dear son ; nevertheless some god has held his hand over me , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all 
