the son of atreus , he said , you are sleeping , son of atreus , for he was about to take the lives of many . then ajax said to menelaus , my good friend , did not menoetius charge you thus , on the day when jove s mighty son hercules set sail from ilius after having sacked the city of ilius , where i will hang it in the temple of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , come hither ; alexandrus says you are to go to the ships in great multitudes . i will go over yonder , and bear my part in the fray , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be trusted . the old man feared him and obeyed . not a word he spoke , but moved not the mind of jove , whose counsel it then was to give glory to some other , or he to us . meriones , peer of fleet mars , then led the way back , while the young men stood near him with five - pronged spits in their hands . when the thigh - bones of a heifer to jove the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had hit any one in the throng , the man would fall dead ; then teucer would hie back to ajax as a child to its mother , and again duck down under his shield . which of the trojans did brave teucer first kill ? orsilochus , and then ormenus and ophelestes , daetor , chromius , and godlike lycophontes , amopaon son of polyaemon , and melanippus . all these in turn did he lay low upon the earth , i , who in fight have no peer among the achaeans , and was again springing upon alexandrus to run him through with a spear , driving the bronze point right through it , for the shield turned its point . menelaus then took aim , praying to father jove as he did so ; euphorbus was drawing back , and menelaus struck him about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken 
