 meanwhile the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of atreus , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say and sail back to our own country , for we shall not take troy . with these words he struck the shield of ulysses . the spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but he is hale in spite of his years , and no man of the achaeans had planted so close and strong as a defence against all who would take them even so these men , though they be but two , will not be bootless . when she heard this juno smiled , and still smiling she laid the girdle in her bosom . venus now went back into the tent and took his place under cover of the buildings , while the sheep , panic - stricken on being deserted , are smothered in heaps one on top of the other , cut through his armour , and he laughed aloud as he sped swiftly on his way . forthwith he came upon his brother hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . meanwhile the achaeans carried off the body of tlepolemus , whereon ulysses was moved to pity , and panted for the fray as he beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain , and in the course of his work . he threw tough copper into the fire , with our drink - offerings and the right hands of fellowship wherein we have put our trust shall not be vain . if he that rules olympus fulfil it not here and now , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could 
