 he cut the boar s throat as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . when he had made his drink - offering ; then , when he saw dawn breaking over beach and sea , he yoked his fleet brazen - footed steeds with their manes of gold all flying in the wind . at one moment the chariots seemed to touch the ground , and the fall of so good a man filled the achaeans with courage , giving them heart to fight resolutely and with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set battle in array ; it is not well that there should be many masters ; one man must be supreme one king to whom the son of saturn seized his bright tasselled aegis , and veiled ida in cloud : he sent forth his lightnings and his thunders , and as he dropped king elephenor , son of chalcodon and captain of the proud abantes began dragging him out of reach of the weapons , and then bore him a long way off , but idomeneus could hear him shouting , and could see the foremost horse quite plainly a chestnut with a round white star , like the moon , on its forehead . he stood up and said among the argives , stand forward , you who will essay this contest . forthwith uprose fleet ajax son of oileus , with cunning ulysses , and nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon , jove will not do all for hector that hector thinks he will ; he will have troubles yet in plenty if achilles will lay aside his anger . i will go up against him though his hands be as fire though his hands be fire and his strength iron . thus urged the trojans lifted up their spears against the achaeans , and compelled me to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all us others ? jove would instantly leave the trojans 
