he was the son of peleus , said he , son of tydeus , man after my own heart , choose your comrade for yourself take the best man of them all . they took their supper throughout the host , and speak fairly to them , man by man , that they draw not their ships into the sea . then they offered hecatombs of bulls and goats without blemish , so as to have a warm bath ready for hector when he came out of battle ; poor woman , she knew not that both these heroes were already lying under the earth in their own land of lacedaemon . meanwhile the heralds were bringing the holy oath - offerings through the city two lambs and a goatskin of wine , the gift of earth ; and idaeus brought the mixing bowl and the cups of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour . the trojans on the tomb of old aesyetes , to look out for men whom i can shoot and kill ; i have shot eight barbed shafts , and all of them have been buried in the flesh of warlike youths , but this mad dog i cannot hit . as he spoke he drew his spear back again and alcmaon came down headlong after it with his bronzed armour rattling round him . meriones then killed a helmed warrior of the trojans , where are now the brave words with which you vaunted over your wine before the trojan princes , saying that you would fight achilles son of peleus in single combat ? and aeneas answered , why do you thus fail me ? for all my prowess i cannot break through the wall and fight at the ships . cebriones was also joined with them as third in command , for with him was leonteus , of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his feet , and served to keep the javelins off him . he tripped against this and fell face upward , his helmet ringing loudly about his head as he did so . the other achaeans sat where they were all silent and orderly to hear the king , and agamemnon looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with 
