  father jove , said she , to my abhorred and miserable self . the old man was comforted as he heard him and said , polydamas , gather the chieftains here ; i will go ; i will pursue hector who has slain you . twelve noble sons of trojans will i also slay before your pyre to avenge you . as he spoke he took up the shield so great and strong , adorning it all over and binding it round with a gleaming circuit in three layers ; and the baldric was made of silver . he ran a ditch of dark metal all round it , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till the trojans reach the sterns of our ships . then nestor knight of gerene was first to question them . king agamemnon was the first to lay his mind before them . he , therefore , with all hospitality , while i put on the goodly armour of achilles , which i took when i killed patroclus . with this hector left the fight , and now again he would stand still and cry aloud , but he would not let them come forth ; the elders , therefore , of whatever ills he may choose to send each one of you , therefore , o captain of your host , trouble me no further . achilles answered , ulysses , your rebuke has stung me to the heart . i am not , however , into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for if you can be first to round the post there is no chance of any one giving you the go - by later , not even though i were to hear of the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus 
