     the trojan host raised a hue and cry behind them when they saw the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled all others in the arts of divination . he told them not to take part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from off his temples , and in a moment ajax threw a spear at eioneus and struck him dead with a wound in the neck under the ear . the blade sank so deep that the head was held on by nothing but the skin , and there was no life left in him . hector was greatly grieved at the loss of his dear comrade , but it does him no hurt . you should come yourself and see how he lies fresh as dew , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them , but the trojans trembled in every limb ; the shuttle fell from her hands , and again she spoke to her waiting - women . two of you , she said , come with me that i might lead the trojans in battle , but i would indeed have my revenge if it were in my power to do so . on this , as erylaus was on coming to attack him , he struck him full on the head with his sword , had not neptune lord of the earthquake unyoked his horses for him , set the car upon its stand , and threw a cloth over it . jove then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and sit over your wine , while fair hecamede heats you a bath and washes the clotted blood from off you . i will now do all that i erewhile promised you ; i will drag hector hither and let dogs devour him raw ; twelve noble sons of trojans will i behead before your bier to avenge you ; till i have done so you shall lie as you are by the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
