  socus , hero that he was , made all speed to help him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . in the end , he deemed it best to go at once to nestor son of neleus , and see if between them they could find any way of the achaeans from destruction . he therefore rose , put on his shirt , bound his sandals about his comely feet . he buckled on his purple coat , of two thicknesses , large , and of a rough shaggy texture , grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own tent , but the son of peleus pressed on to win still further glory , and his hands were bedrabbled with gore . now when they came to the place of assembly because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , in order to avenge him . now there was a certain man named dolon , son of eumedes , the famous herald a man rich in gold and bronze . he was ill - favoured , but a good runner , and was an only son among five sisters . he it was who took his bow and put it by in his tent . he hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , all gleaming with bronze , for thrasymedes had taken his father s shield ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of heaven is with him . yet , if i could find ajax , the two of us would fight hector and heaven too , if we might only save the body of patroclus . and now he would even have dragged it off and have won imperishable glory , had not iris fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most 
