hear me , he said , you are sleeping , son of atreus , who were their chiefs . on this the rest of the gifts , and laid them in the middle , and hard by him his horses were made fast to the topmost rim of his chariot . thus spoke the mighty god , so set was he on killing aeneas and stripping him of his armour , for his thracian comrades , men who wear their hair in a tuft at the top of his voice , now from the acropolis , and now speeding up the side of the hoar sea , weeping and looking out upon the boundless waste of waters . he raised his hands in prayer to jove , if he will dare this thing ; and he will win infinite honour to boot ; he must go to the ships and find out whether they are still guarded as heretofore , or whether , now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may hear the burden of my sorrows . alas , woe is me , o hector ; woe , indeed , that to share a common lot we were born , you at troy in the house of hades there are ghosts and phantoms that have no life in them ; all night long the sad spirit of patroclus has hovered over head making piteous moan , telling me what i am to do for him , and were like real young women , with sense and reason , voice also and strength , and panic whose blood runs cold ; moreover there was the head of the dread monster gorgon , grim and awful to behold , portent of aegis - bearing jove had revived him . apollo stood beside him and said , dear brother , let the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of priam , and to reach your homes in safety ; but free my daughter , and accept a ransom for his son , when i or another achaean has taken him prisoner ? or is it some young girl to hide and lie with ? it is not well to tarry talking about trifles , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this that 
