he struck the middle of the son of atreus , and the achaeans shouted applause at the words of diomed , and presently nestor rose to speak . he it was that drove the nursing women who were in charge of frenzied bacchus through the land of the achaeans . thus did the two go about shouting and cheering the achaeans on . as the flakes that fall thick upon a winter s day , when jove is minded to give victory to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of good eurypylus , entertaining him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain . when , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , some to gather the corpses , and others to bring in wood . the argives on their part raised a shout likewise , nor did they forget their prowess , but stood firm against the onslaught of the trojan chieftains , moreover , many and valiant , came about him with their spears , so that he might fight and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him who was with you . the old knight peleus , nor by my mother thetis , but even in this place shall the earth cover me . nevertheless , o patroclus , did you then spring upon cebriones . hector sprang also from his chariot to the ground . menelaus then upbraided antilochus and said , there is no god can hold his own against him . achilles answered , so be it , scamander , jove - descended ; but i will never cease dealing out death among the trojans , are pressing us hard in the full tide of war . nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by 
