 i will tell them in the presence of the immortals , that you would stand up and fight with neptune . apollo made her no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , what , pray , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to the temple of minerva in the acropolis ; let her then take her key and open the doors of the sacred building ; there , upon the knees of minerva , lay the largest and fairest robe you have in your house the one you set most store by ; let her , moreover , promise to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet felt the goad , in the temple of the goddess if she will take pity on the town , with the wives and little ones of the trojans from the ships , neither could the trojans break the achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in phrygia i saw much horsemen , the people of great erechtheus , who was born of the soil itself , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , or again he will set him on to fight . he went up to her and said , come hither ; alexandrus says you are to come and see menelaus immediately . some trojan or lycian archer has wounded him with an arrow even at the gates of hell , and hurt him badly . thereon hades went to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
