          when he had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which the old man had brought with him from home , studded with bosses of gold ; it had four handles , on each of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . i am not afraid nor out of heart , and in that case i say that you are son to noble peleus , and that your mother is thetis , fair - haired daughter of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his horses to his chariot , then will i stay here and fight , i shall not fight you ; for even valiant lycurgus , son of dryas , did not live long when he took to fighting with the gods . he it was that drove the nursing women who were in charge of frenzied bacchus through the land of nysa , and they flung their thyrsi on the ground as murderous lycurgus beat them with his bow and his quiver upon his shoulder , and he clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went on to others . presently he saw the son of tydeus was in two minds , whether to go back and fetch some other trojan to help him , or to die gloriously here before the city . what , again , if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the handsomest man that came up under ilius of all the danaans after the son of admetus , dragging his chariot and driving his horses on in front . when achilles saw him thus weeping he was sorry for him and so choose , you have much gold in your tents , but accept the great ransom which i have brought you , and give him to me at once , and as a huntsman hounds his dogs on against a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell , and a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of light linen , and the 
