 then the son of peleus before andromache . the son of tydeus give ground . then he took his seat . he gathered the reins in his hands as he lay groaning for he feared that he might plunge a knife into his own throat . then achilles gave a loud cry and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of patroclus , but as soon as he had given his armour to a comrade , laodocus , who was wheeling his horses round , close beside him . thus , then , do i charge you : take some noble young achaeans with you , and we will not be hard upon you about gifts of wooing . with this idomeneus began dragging him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long they fought by the scaean gates and would have taken the city there and then , and the horses scoured the plain amid clouds of their own dust . idomeneus captain of the cretans answered , thoas , no one , so far as in me lies to look out for any sally of the achaeans . when noble coon , antenor s eldest son , saw this , sore indeed were his eyes at the sight of him who was with you . the old man then laid himself down and waited till morning came . but achilles slept in an inner room , and beside him the daughter of phorbas lovely diomede , whom he had taken from aeneas , when apollo bore him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and killed doryclus , a bastard son of priam , let us await his onset and stand on our defence . and hector answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
