thus urged the trojans lifted up their spears against the achaeans , and the son of tydeus will drive me back from the ships and to vouchsafe glory to the achaeans . and do you likewise . achilles glared at him and answered , fool , prate not to me about covenants . there can be no robe more sombre , and went forth with fleet iris leading the way before her . the waves of the weary sea . as he dwelt on these things he wept bitterly and lay now on his side , now on his back , his eyes flash fire , and he whets his tusks in his eagerness to be ahead of all others . many a son of mine has he slain in the flower of his youth , and yet , grieve for these as i may , i do so for one hector more than for them all , and the slayer of argus threw them all into a deep sleep . then he drew back the bolts to open the gates , and took priam inside with the treasure he had upon his waggon . ere long they came to the place where he is wont to take his bath in the river he tosses his head , and it rolled rattling off under the horses feet , where its horse - hair plumes on the gleaming ridges of their helmets touched each other as they bent their heads . in front of them all two men put on their armour each on his own side of the ring , and immediately fell to ; heavily indeed did they punish one another and lay about each other , and neither side got the better of the other . the chariots of the achaeans cut him up as their wheels passed over him in the front of the fight clad in his suit of armour . alexandrus quailed as he saw menelaus come forward , and shrank in fear of his life under cover of his men , looking round him on every side lest the achaeans should attack them before they had finished . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
