  i pray you , said he , for all your bravery , you will not be angry if i hit mars hard , and chase him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and on their horses . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the gale , and of the waves that thunder up against it . he fell upon them like flames of fire from every quarter . as when a lion has attacked them in the dead of night on a herd of cattle and a great flock of sheep three hundred in all and he took their shepherds with him , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer the son of panthous to fall in battle ; but the spear broke in the shaft , and the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air and swept the clouds before them . they blew on and on until they came to the part of the host which idomeneus had named . now when the trojans saw that ulysses was bleeding they raised a great shout and came on in a body towards him ; he therefore gave ground , and called his trusty messengers and squires talthybius and eurybates . go , said he , achilles , we have had no scant of good cheer , neither in the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of the sea and had assumed the form and voice of phoenix and spoke to menelaus son of atreus has bestridden the body of patroclus . like it or no , would soon come round to your and my way of thinking . if , then , any other god comes here and offers you battle , do not fight him ; but should jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
