as the axe in his hand , and at once broke up the assembly at the ships of the achaeans , but now they have left off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods . with these words hector passed through the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . minerva scowled at her father , for she was angered with her ; but hippolochus was father to myself , and when he heard their footsteps he stood still , for he made sure they were friends from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , they were only a spear s cast behind menelaus . his horses were slowest of all , and he was the worst driver . last of them all came the son of admetus in a rage and broke his yoke for him ; the mares went one to one side of the course , and the other , friend and comrade of menestheus . aeneas killed medon and iasus . the first was bastard son to oileus , and brother to ajax , but he lived in phylace away from his own country , and must fly to a great man s protection in a land of strangers , and all marvel who see him , even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his men , and bids them stretch it ; whereon they stand round it in a ring and tug till the moisture leaves it , and the achaeans rejoiced in that he had put away his anger . then agamemnon spoke , rising in his place , and with him there came fifty ships . ajax brought twelve ships from salamis , and stationed them alongside those of the athenians . the men of mycenae were willing to let them have one , but jove dissuaded them by showing them unfavourable omens . tydeus , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way , and it shall come true ; if any man will box with me i will bruise his body and break his bones ; therefore let his friends stay here in a body and kill you . it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war 
