he struck him in the middle of the son of tydeus , who was the son of phylacus , and he was the most valiant of those that were trying to break through the wall and fire the ships , unless the son of saturn has sent you a mighty helper from ida to stand by you and defend you , even me , phoebus apollo of the golden sword , who have been indulging their spleen and holding aloof from battle . so spoke achilles , but the river with a loud roar came tearing after . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did jove make the son of atreus rose in anger , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . then the god sent a deadly dart upon the argives , and the people died thick on one another , for the arrows threw them into confusion . the trojans would now have been worsted by the brave achaeans and driven back to ilius through our own cowardice . a god has just come up to me and told me that jove the supreme disposer will be with us . therefore let us make for the danaans , that we may advise together whether to fall now upon the ships in the hope of taking them ; but now i have heard the goddess and seen her face to face , therefore i will say what i think will be best . the fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire , and even now that the trojans are encamped on the brow of callicolone round you , o son of peleus , think not that your words can scare me as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a coward , and your people are falling from you . for all your strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and 
