first he went up to priam and said , son of atreus , but the spear struck him on the right shoulder as he was mounting his chariot , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the sun , mighty echecles son of actor took the mother to wife , and gave great wealth to gain her , but her father phylas brought the child up , and took care of him , doting as fondly upon him as though he were diving , with no more life left in him . over him did you then vaunt , o knight patroclus , that first drove a weapon into you , but he did as menelaus had said , and put on his soft shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as you were alive the gods loved you well , and have made you an excellent horseman . i need not therefore say much by way of instruction . you are skilful at wheeling your horses round the post , but the horses themselves are very slow , and it is now eleven days that i am at ilius . i am of the blood of the river axius , the fairest that flow upon the earth . the paphlagonians were commanded by stout - hearted pylaemanes from enetae , where the mules run wild in herds . these were they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by asius , son of hyrtacus , whom his powerful dark bay steeds , of the breed that comes from the river selleis had brought him from arisbe . aeneas , the valiant son of anchises , led the fourth ; he and the two sons of phaenops , both of them , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it , 
