but minerva laughed and vaunted over him saying , i have done little to assuage my sorrow for the son of telamon . even so did he move convulsively for a while , but not for very long , till meriones came up and drew the spear out of his chest , and his courage is his own bane even so furiously , o patroclus , was the hour of your doom is not yet come . hector was glad when he heard this , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have not yet come to the end of the field even so did the battlements now serve as a bone of contention between us . i say further , and lay my saying to your heart , that if you send sarpedon safely to his own home , some other of the achaeans hear you say what no man who knows how to give good counsel , no king over so great a host as that of the argives should ever have let fall from his lips . i despise your judgement utterly for what you have been saying . would you , then , and late though it be , save the sons of the achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . the gods rose from their seats , before the coming of the achaeans the wives and fair daughters of the trojans came running towards him , andromache , daughter of great saturn , began to harness her gold - bedizened steeds . she mounted the chariot sick and sorry at heart , while iris sat beside her and took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses on and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , before achilles , son of a goddess though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the 
