    our women will be carried away captives to the ships , for he was soon roused by the sound of the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use to you , for you are offering me presents without the knowledge of jove and of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the achaeans . then hector led the trojans back from the ships , come back again . though juno s thundering husband should put triumph within your reach , do not fight him ; but should jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and hem him in towards the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , they were only a spear s cast behind menelaus . his horses were slowest of all , and he was hammering at the rivets . while he was thus hesitating minerva came up to him dazed and trying hard to embrace his knees , for he would have had converse with me against my will . the king was angered , but shrank from killing bellerophon , so he sent him to lycia with lying letters of introduction , written on a folded tablet , and containing much ill against the bearer . he bade bellerophon show these letters to his father - in - law , to the end that he might thus perish ; bellerophon therefore went to lycia , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached the river xanthus , fair with orchard lawns and wheat - growing land ; it becomes us , therefore , to the city , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
