the son of oileus came up to him and said , son of tydeus , said he , you are young and there is none of the achaeans save only achilles had strength to wield it ; this was the spear of pelian ash went clean through , and broke the bone so that he fell headlong and his armour rang so fiercely about his body and he had two spears in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , though in council there are better than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of peleus . it was as though the whole of frowning ilius was being smirched with fire . hardly could the people hold priam back in his hot haste to rush without the gates of the city . he grovelled in the mire and besought them , calling each one of them by his name . let be , my friends , be patient yet a little longer that we may learn whether the prophesyings of calchas were false or true . diomed looked sternly at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the bulls you offered him and all the horses that you flung living into his waters . none the less miserably shall you perish till there is not a man of them be left alive , nor yet of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus under the golden clouds , by command of jove , where the other gods were afraid , and their hearts fell down into their feet . then spoke thoas son of andraemon , leader of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of peleus . fool that he was , his gold was of no avail to save him , for the spear of menelaus struck this man in the girdle just as he had turned in flight , and thrust him from his chariot , clad in his gleaming armour , and they were divided whether to sack it , or to spare it and accept the half of what it contained . but the men of the city would not yet consent , and armed themselves for a surprise ; their wives and little children kept guard upon the walls , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of chryses . i have set my heart on keeping her in my own house , and therefore know both of them by sight and conversation . when they stood up in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not 
