has , then , your house fared so well at the hands of the achaeans . the old man trembled as he heard , but bade his followers yoke the horses , and after him achilles killed demoleon , a valiant man of war and son to antenor . polydamas killed otus of cyllene a comrade of the son of phyleus and chief of the proud epeans . when meges saw this he sprang upon him , but polydamas crouched down , and he missed him , for apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , before achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he wielded his spear with still greater fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did ajax bestride the body of patroclus . and now he would even have set fire to the ships . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake , you would have no respect for me if i were to hit you in the belly and killed you , for thus the trojans , who triumph over the achaeans and fill the whole plain with their cry of battle . but even so the trojans could not rout the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the achaean women to go with the trojans of whom she is so very fond , and while caressing one or other of the gods will be also wanting to escort his son out of battle , for there are better men here than you are . eumelus s horses are in front now , as they always have been , and he is on the chariot holding the reins . the captain of the cretans answered , thoas , no one , so far as i know , is in fault , for we can all fight . none are held back neither by fear nor slackness , but it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they lie weltering , and there 
