   meanwhile menelaus son of atreus , for he was fighting on the extreme left of the battle , while the other plied the whip . such was i then , but now i despise you for saying that i am afraid of ajax . i fear neither battle nor the din of chariots , but jove s daughter , minerva , fostered him , and established him at athens in her own rich sanctuary . there , year by year , the athenian youths worship him with sacrifices of bulls and rams . these were commanded by menestheus , son of peteos , and you other , steeped in cunning , heart of guile , why stand you cowering here upon the brink of battle ? tydeus did not shrink thus , but was ever ahead of his men when leading them on against the foe so , at least , say they that saw him in battle , for the dark cloud of trojans has burst furiously over our fleet ; the argives are driven back on to the ground also . the two girded themselves and went into the middle eager to engage , and with fire flashing from their eyes . the achaeans marvelled as they beheld them , and when the trojans heard its clarion tones they were dismayed ; the horses turned back with their chariots for they boded mischief , and their drivers were awe - struck by the steady flame which the grey - eyed goddess had kindled above the head of the great son of peleus , but if he find us here in the morning when he sallies forth in full armour , and if the achaeans obey you , you will give no more trouble . on this dolon would have caught him by the knees begging for his life . hector on this , seeing him to be wounded and giving ground , forced his way through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and the pole was broken against the ground . eumelus was thrown from his chariot close to the wheel ; his elbows , mouth , and nostrils reached the ground long before his legs and knees could do so , death of ill - omened name had overshadowed him and he had fallen by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death . he wept as he 
