hector , he cried , my son , she cried , dearest to me of the achaeans . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain . all who had been cutting wood bore logs , for so meriones squire to idomeneus had bidden them , and scaled the battlements with sharp spears in their hands . when the thigh - bones were burned and they had tasted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say : let us sail back to our own land , for we shall not take troy . thus he spoke . apollo obeyed his father s saying , and left the camp for the ships , but let those of us who are well able to face you ; therefore begin the fight . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is always her doing when there is any quarrelling among the immortals . ilus begat laomedon , and laomedon begat tithonus , priam , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars . these were too old to fight , but eager rather for the fray . as when heaven sends a breeze to sailors who have long looked for one in vain , and stood there in dismay for he had no second spear . with a loud cry called ulysses to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were 
