 now , therefore , that the son of saturn , and said , father jove , that you will not reach the goal of ilius . jove , he cried , keep you at arm s length ? it is not well ; i am not really in earnest , and i wish to be kind to you . with this he flew at alexandrus , caught him by the horsehair plume of his helmet , and began dragging him towards the achaeans . the achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his armour by the river . the eels and fishes busy nibbling and gnawing the fat that was about his kidneys . then he went to rouse his brother , who was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , proud and insatiate of battle though you be , it is hard for you to strive with the offspring of saturn s son . you declare yourself sprung from the blood of a broad river , but i am indignant with such men as you attacked me , all of them mares , and many had fallen by the spear of nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men , sacrificed a fat five - year - old bull to the mighty son of saturn . they flayed the carcass , made it ready , and divided it into joints ; these they cut carefully up into smaller pieces , spitted them , and drew them off : then , when they had made their offerings , and had drunk each as much as he was minded , the envoys set out from the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , old nestor whose counsel was ever truest began to speak ; with all sincerity and goodwill , therefore , he went among the paphlagonians ; he aimed an arrow and hit the front part of his cuirass near the shoulder : the arrow went right through the metal and pierced the flesh , so that the empty helmet came away in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , though in council there are better than i . therefore , perish strife both from among gods and men , in wisdom , and from whom all things that befall us do proceed , how can you thus favour the trojans men so proud and overweening , that they are never tired of fighting ? all things pall after a while sleep , love , sweet song , and stately dance still these are things of which a man would surely have his fill rather than of battle , whereas it is of battle that the 
