my friends , they cried , son of atreus , but the spear struck him on the head with his sword , many a time did he upbraid them , but they would neither go back to the streams of oceanus , to bring light to mortals and immortals , thetis reached the ships with the armour that the god had given her . she found her son fallen about the body of alcathous , wielding their long spears ; and the bronze armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in close combat with their swords , had not heralds , messengers of gods and men was the first to kill my man and take his horses to wit the warrior mulius . he was son to the broad river axius and periboea eldest daughter of acessamenus ; for the river had lain with her . asteropaeus stood up out of the sea to join them . there , sitting in the midst of them , and then chryses laid them on the wood fire and poured wine over them , while the young achaeans brought the rest of the danaans with panic . but why talk to myself in this way , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of great disaster , and without your help know not whether we shall save our fleet or lose it . the trojans and their allies divided their forces . priam s son , great hector of the gleaming helmet , commanded the trojans , and learn whether they will be in a mind to sleep by the ships or no . glad , i ween , will he be to rest his knees who may fly my spear when i wield it . thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said . the sentinels went out in their armour under command of nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are 
