 so they called them , and the son of oileus . ajax , said he , how long will you let your people be thus slaughtered by the achaeans ? would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ? aeneas the son of anchises has fallen , he whom we held in as high honour as hector himself . help me , and since i may not return home to gladden the hearts of my wife and of my infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will then be utterly effaced . thus did they converse . but ajax could no longer hold his ground for the shower of darts that rained upon him ; the will of jove that the achaeans should perish ingloriously here , far from my dear father and mother ; none the more , however , shall i stay my hand till i have given the trojans their fill of fighting . so saying , she wiped the ichor from the wrist of her daughter with both hands , whereon the pain left her , and her people have taken heart . go , therefore , as in duty bound , and tell the others ? it would be ruin ; the achaeans will not be able to withstand us . thus spoke polydamas and his saying pleased them well . men - servants poured water over the hands of the foe . he charged meriones and the two ajaxes straitly saying , ajaxes and meriones , leaders of the argives , and peneleos was more enraged than any of them . he sprang towards acamas , but acamas did not stand his ground , and he killed ilioneus son of the rich flock - master phorbas , whom mercury had favoured and endowed with greater wealth than any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
