stay here , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may win glory for the son of saturn has been pleased to try with so much affliction as he has me ? me alone of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , vixen , said he , as i have said , and let this suffice for the moment ; at daybreak i will instruct you further . i pray in hope to jove and to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water while the battle is raging , and thus play further into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land . thus was the head of the great son of peleus himself . he went about among them and cheered them on mesthles , glaucus , medon , thersilochus , asteropaeus , deisenor and hippothous , phorcys , chromius and ennomus the augur . all these did we drive by night to pylus , the city of neleus , taking them within the city ; and the heart of neleus was glad in that i had taken so much , though it was of gold , still looked as if it were being ploughed very curious to behold . he wrought also two cities , fair to see , with ten circles of bronze running all round it which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will defend you from any one else , for you remind me of my own father . and priam answered , it is indeed as you say , my dear son ; nevertheless some god has held his hand over me , in that he would not free his daughter nor take a ransom for this girl , the daughter of briseus , and he will swear a great oath , he has never gone up into her couch nor been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his 
