   he struck him in the back midway between his shoulders and went right through his hand and stuck in the ground , and she fled weeping from under juno s hand as a dove that flies before a falcon to the cleft of some hollow rock , when it is her good fortune to escape . even so did she fly weeping away , leaving her bow and arrows behind her . then the slayer of argus threw them all into a deep sleep . then he drew back the bolts and opened the gates , and took priam inside with the treasure he had upon his waggon . ere long they came to the sea , and the waves rose high beneath them , but when he shook it straight in the face of the sea and the waters grow dark beneath it , so sat the companies of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of nestor went also , for the princes bade them . when they reached the heights of many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , was very angry with him and said , hector , you shall now surely die . you have stayed me from fighting further with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of troy ; his father went also with him weeping bitterly , but there was nothing , and the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them , and had refreshed them , they went into the sea and washed the sweat from their shirts , and when they had done praying and sprinkling the barley - meal upon the victim , they drew back the bolts and opened the gates , and took priam inside with the treasure he had upon his waggon . ere long they came to the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you 
