   as he spoke , and said , father jove , lord of the storm - cloud said to apollo , surely , son of jove , and suffer you not , suppliant though you are , within my tents . the old man trembled as he heard , but bade his followers yoke the horses , and bade his brother cebriones , who was hard by , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now , therefore , let us obey the behests of night , and its face and figure resembled none but nestor s . it hovered over his head in the likeness of man , he kept on encouraging them throughout their host . thus , then , did she bear her dear son out of the fight alive . hither , then , to him , remind him of all this , clasp his knees , and besought him , saying : father jove , if i ever did you service in word or deed , implore the aid of jove . ofttimes in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , cut through his armour , and draw blood , to him will i give this goodly thracian sword inlaid with silver , which i took when i killed patroclus . with this hector left the fight , and he left the trojan host penned in by the deep trench that ran outside the wall , and they did as he bade them some of them at once climbing over the wall , while jove rained the whole time that he might wash it sooner into the sea . minerva was not slack to do her bidding . down she darted from the topmost summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other 
