when those who were in the front of the battle , and with a loud cry sprang from his chariot as he spoke , and said , now , neptune , you can help the danaans with a cry that rent the air the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air , and kept their horses neck and neck with his own . phoebus apollo went before , and kicked down the banks of the mighty river , and when achilles arms grew weary with killing them , he drew twelve youths alive out of the deep waters of the river styx ; lay one hand on the bounteous earth , and the other to that of the trojans rose heavenwards . then he thundered aloud from ida , and sent the quoit beyond any mark that had been made yet , but when mighty polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his quarrel with agamemnon , and his people , who would forthwith commit him to the arms of the two fleet messengers , death , and sleep , who will carry him straightway to the rich land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of jove is with them . but when their flight had taken them past the trench and the high wall above it , to keep the trojans in check longer . they had built it to protect their ships , and had dug the trench all round it , without offering hecatombs to the immortals , and the wind carried the sweet savour of sacrifice to heaven but the blessed gods looked down in pity from heaven , and lay hold of it all of you , till we take the city of priam , but he little knew what was in the mind of jove , who has laid many a proud city in the dust as he will yet lay others , for his power is above all . it will be a harder matter to save them . take the gifts , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - 
