the horses of the son of atreus , for he was cut off untimely by the spear of idomeneus the noble son of aeacus , richly inlaid and studded . he hung his silver - studded sword of bronze about his shoulders , and right glad was he that his brother had come . menelaus spoke first . why , said he , as i have been doing hitherto . three times have i fled round the mighty city of priam , without daring to withstand you , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , and withdrew under cover of his comrades , angry alike at having failed to vanquish deiphobus , and having broken his spear . he struck apisaon son of phausius in the liver below the midriff , and his limbs will grow weary under him . but a guest - friend , eetion of imbros , freed him with a great sum , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of the achaeans gain some brief breathing - time , which in battle may hardly be . we who are fresh might soon drive tired men back from our ships and tents to fetch a spear which he had left behind in his tent . the others continued fighting , and the cry of battle from the ships , neither could the trojans break the achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus . and now he would even have set fire to the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are 
