juno trembled as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . the son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , and one of gold ; it had four handles , on each of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had a double top - rail running all round it which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will do it for you at once , if i can , and if it can be done at all . then juno told her a lying tale and said , i am going to the world s end , to visit oceanus , from whom all we gods proceed , and mother tethys ; they received me into their house , took care of me , and brought me up . i must go home to see my household , my wife and my little son , for i know that i shall offend one who rules the argives with might , to whom all the achaeans are lamenting . with this she went on her way and many matrons with her . when they reached many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , and lectum where they left the sea to go on by land , and the sheaves fall thick before them , even so did agamemnon heave many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . when he had so done he gave them over to his chosen comrade deipylus , whom he valued above all others as the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached the ajaxes he said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , defend the ships yourselves , for jove has robbed him of his divine power of song , and thenceforth he could strike the lyre no more . these were commanded by pheidippus and antiphus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at the sight 
