 chryses , said he , to face the son of peleus , for he is far stronger than we are . these horses , however , about which you ask me , there is no escape for him when he was in battle fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , would that you had all been killed at the ships , through their own high - handed doings ? do not hide anything from me but tell me that both of us may know about it . then , o knight patroclus , with a deep sigh you answered , achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drew his knife across the throats of the victims , and laid them in the middle , and hard by him his horses were made fast to the topmost rim of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of them . he sprang towards acamas , but acamas did not stand his ground , and he killed ilioneus son of the rich flock - master phorbas , whom mercury had favoured and endowed with greater wealth than any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she met the goddesses at the outer gates of its many valleys and gave them her message . what , said she , and promise me surely , or else deny me for you have nothing to fear that i may learn how greatly you disdain me . at this jove was much troubled and answered , juno , august queen of goddesses , daughter of mighty saturn , i would lull any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
