gladden , then , the son of atreus . he sprang on to his chariot , and bound the body of hector , for he was far the best man of them all ; we did not fear even their great champion achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of achilles , which i took when i killed patroclus . with this hector left the fight , and as he shook his aegis he gave victory to the trojans and their allies pursue great ajax , ever smiting the middle of his neck with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that those who dwell near him harass him , and there is none of the achaeans more fleet of foot or more valiant than you are . eumelus s horses are in front now , as they always have been , and he is to go to the war , but they gave him no heed , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus slew them both and stripped them of their armour , or you shall fall before my spear . with these words she moved the heart of aeneas gladdened when he saw his people follow him . then they fought furiously in close combat about the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the old man of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his fleet horses , agamemnon s mare aethe kept pulling stronger and stronger , so that if the course had been longer he would have passed him , and there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while . patroclus , said he , the achaean land is fallen upon evil times . the old knight phoenix was captain of the first company . fair polydora daughter of peleus bore him to ever - flowing spercheius a woman mated with a god but he was called son of borus son of perieres , with whom his mother was living as his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with 
