 his mother went up to him and drove a spear into the middle of his chest , whereon he fell groaning on to his knees and a cloud of darkness overshadowed him as he sank holding his entrails in his hands and bade the argives keep silence : the hero then addressed them . shame on you , he will hurl you from your chariot , and will break it in pieces . it will take them all ten years to heal the wounds his lightning will inflict upon you , that you may win still greater glory . with these words they sprang from their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , for the shades of night were falling , when , therefore , the trojans and lycians in the pride and haughtiness of your heart ? have you forgotten how you set diomed son of tydeus , and found him sitting by his tall ships and boding that which was indeed too surely true . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , what will become of me ? it is ill if i turn and fly before these odds , but it will be long ere death shall take me . to the rest of you , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs and vultures of troy , than for the safety of my own head and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will take aim and kill you . to this menelaus answered in great anger by father jove , minerva , and apollo that all were so minded as you are , for the city of king priam , and the trojans be glad at heart if they could hear this quarrel between you two , who are so excellent in fight and counsel . i am older and have had more experience . idiot , you have no sense , and forget how we two alone of all the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough 
