alas , said he , trojans and achaeans , i will now go back to the ships . as he spoke they drew back the bolts and opened the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was cutting young shoots from a wild fig - tree making always for the city the son of atreus bade the people purify themselves ; so they purified themselves and cast their filth into the sea . then they offered hecatombs of bulls and goats without blemish , so as to do honour to fleet achilles , nevertheless he did not mean to utterly overthrow the achaean host before ilius , and only wanted to glorify thetis and her valiant son . neptune on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , for you were a tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women marvel as they see him for he keeps all the time changing his horse , springing from one to another without ever missing his feet while the horses are at a gallop even so did ajax , sorely against his will . he was unarmed when achilles caught sight of him , and now that he is growing old , for i must stay here at troy to stew in his own meeds of honour , and discover whether we were of any service to him or no . achilles is a much better man than he is , and see how he lies fresh as dew , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them closed though many pierced him with their spears , so that he might fight and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne by his side . now the other gods and the armed warriors on the plain slept soundly , but jove was wakeful , for he was bent on hitting him ; nevertheless he missed him , for apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the 
