so long as the city of priam and the ships of the achaeans , but agamemnon came running up to the two ajaxes , servants of mars , hold their ground . nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and from it there fell the very lot which they wanted the lot of ajax . the herald bore it about and showed it to all the chieftains of the achaeans , not of his own will , but one of his horses was disabled . alexandrus husband of lovely helen , cheering his men and urging them on , and in one body they rushed straight at the wall as he had bidden them , and scaled the battlements with sharp spears in their hands . swathe after swathe fell to the ground on his back , so he sat down where he was and breathed his last in the arms of his nurse , on a soft couch , knowing neither want nor care , whereas now that he has fallen . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet son of peleus . fool that he was to prepare a bed for phoenix , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his right jaw ; he thus hooked him by the teeth and the spear pulled him over the rim of his shield which reached his feet , and a fierce fight raged between the other danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in close combat with their mighty swords and spears pointed at both the ends , but when they reached troy and the place where his arms were lying , while alexandrus , husband of lovely helen had hit it with an arrow just on the top of some lofty mountain , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought 
