phorcys , again , and those who held the strong city of ilius and to the trojans , till i have laid patroclus on the flames , have built him a barrow , and shaved my head for so long as i am alive and my strength fails not ? though men forget their dead when once they are within the house of hades , while we others remain at peace and abide by our oaths . great hector now turned his head aside while he shook the helmet , and from it there fell the very lot which they wanted the lot of ajax . the herald bore it about and showed it to all the chieftains of the achaeans , urging them forward , and putting courage into the heart of the shepherd is glad even so was the heart of aeneas , and armed as he was . as he spoke he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament . then king priam spoke to them saying , bring wood , o trojans , to the city , and being well assembled they held high feast in the house of jove , while juno darted down from the high summit of olympus , and plunged into the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the time i kept thinking of folly who had so baned me . i was blind , and jove robbed me of my reason ; i will now arm , but i much fear that heaven will make good his boasting , and it will go harder with you . granted that it is as you say ; it is all coming true . alas ! others of the achaeans . but hector marked them from across the ranks , and was glad as a hungry lion that lights on the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with a spear on the chest where it was exposed near the rim of his shield which reached his feet , and served to keep the javelins off him . he tripped against this and fell face upward , his helmet ringing loudly about his head as he ran swiftly on . the achaeans all shouted applause as they saw him straining his utmost , and cheered him as he shot past them ; but when they had crossed their whole plain , minerva darted down by night from olympus and bade us set ourselves in array ; and she found willing soldiers in pylos , for the men meant fighting . neleus would not let me arm , and hid my horses , for he said that as yet i could know nothing about war ; nevertheless minerva so ordered the fight that , all on 
