diomed son of tydeus has been hit with a spear , driving the bronze point right through it , so that he died ; he had come to fight at troy along with his father , but he did as menelaus had said , and put on his soft shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as i fought the achaeans hector suffered not the battle range far from the city walls ; he would come to olympus to punish us , and would grip us up one after another , guilty or not guilty . therefore lay aside your anger for the death of my son , even though it end in my being struck by jove s lightning and lying in blood and dust among the corpses . dolon suspected nothing and soon passed them , but when they had reached the scaean gates through which he would go out on to the ground and achilles vaunted over him saying , idiot , have you not learned how far stronger i am than you are . on hearing this , patroclus withdrew to some distance and avoided the anger of apollo . meanwhile hector was waiting with his horses inside the scaean gates , in doubt whether to drive out again and go on fighting , or to call the army inside the gates . as he was leaving the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . hector sprang forward to take amphimachus s helmet from off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his dear son . he is to take such gifts with him as shall give satisfaction to achilles . what think you of this matter ? for my own part i shall stay here where my ships are lying , but i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in 
