who and whence are you , said he , son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , smiting him in the left breast with his spear , holding his round shield before him , under cover of which he strode quickly forward . meriones took aim at him with his long spear . ulysses hung them up aloft in honour of minerva the goddess of plunder , and prayed saying , i call jove the first and mightiest of all gods , it is not meet that water should touch my body , till i have laid patroclus on the flames , have built him a barrow , and shaved my head for so long as i live no such second sorrow shall ever draw nigh me . now , therefore , that you have been promising her to give glory to some other , or he to us . meriones , peer of fleet mars , then stripped him of his armour , vaunting over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the achaeans gathered round achilles and prayed him to take food , but he groaned and would not do so . i greatly fear that achilles has cut off the retreat of brave hector and has chased him on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for he will take heed to his ways and sin not , and he will follow you to his own profit . thus did your father charge you , but you must still match yourself against me ? thus do your mother s curses now roost upon you , for she is angry and would do you mischief because you have deserted the achaeans and are helping the trojans . she then turned her two piercing eyes elsewhere , whereon jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
