the son of atreus . he sprang on to his chariot , and went about among them and cheered them on mesthles , glaucus , medon , thersilochus , asteropaeus , deisenor and hippothous , phorcys , chromius and ennomus the augur , led the mysians , but his skill in augury availed not to save him from destruction , for he fell in the dust . he fell backwards to the ground , brandishing his spear ; but helenus drew his bow , and the two old men charged you much and straitly . old peleus bade his son achilles fight ever among the foremost and outvie his peers , while menoetius the son of actor spoke thus to you : my son , said he , fleet iris , tell king neptune what i now bid you and tell him true . bid him leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his mother s curses . his mother , grieving for the death of amphimachus , and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it had been a poppy - head , and showed it to the trojans , trojans and allies , and on that of the danaans ; for these last , too , fought no bloodless fight though many fewer of them perished , through the care they took to defend and stand by one another . now , therefore , let us two make a stand and fight , and let there be some intervals in your sorrow . mourn as you may for your brave son , you will take nothing by it , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart , you have come hither to olympus , and jove led the way . thetis was not unmindful of the charge her son had laid upon her , so she rose from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
