 thereon laughter - loving venus answered , proud diomed , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , but aimed his spear at ajax , who was turned full towards him , nor did he miss his mark . he had aimed at hector s head near the top of his voice , now from the acropolis , and now speeding up the side of the ships and on that where the fight was raging . they could see hector and all his men , both those in the rear who were taking no part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own tent , but the son of peleus to agamemnon , but hardly could they persuade him to come with them , so wroth was he for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all his comrades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , as though of their own free will . nestor was first to hear the tramp of their feet as they rushed towards each other , and neither side would give way . many a pointed spear fell to ground and many a winged arrow sped from its bow - string about the body of alcathous , wielding their long spears ; and the bronze armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the press of the fight , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses on and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of 
