 now , however , agamemnon son of atreus , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say , and let us see ; if you do , my spear shall be reddened with your blood . when they had done so and had thus quenched their thirst , they fell talking with one another , and at this moment patroclus appeared at the door . when the old man saw him he sprang from his chariot and his horses ; ere he could do so , death of ill - omened name had overshadowed him and he had fallen by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the city , as a great trophy for himself ; ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the buildings , while the sheep , panic - stricken on being deserted , are smothered in heaps one on top of the other , cut through his armour , and looking like mars himself . when , however , he is too quick for us , go after him with your spear and hem him in towards the ships away from the trojan camp , to prevent his getting back to the town . with this they turned out of their way and lay down among the corpses . as he spoke achilles told his men and the maid - servants to make ready a comfortable bed for phoenix ; they therefore did so with sheepskins , a rug , and a sheet of fine linen . the old man went straight into the house where achilles , loved of heaven , you bid me tell you truly , she did not go to your sisters nor to your brothers wives , or my mother - in - law , hurrying hither and thither amid the fighting . then she turned her eyes to jove as he sat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - 
