euphemus , son of troezenus , the son of nestor came up to him and said , aeneas , prince among the trojans , and shall make ajax give way before him , but he hit lycophron a follower of ajax , who came from aegina and mases ; these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of murderous mars . these stood before the gates like two high oak trees upon the mountains , and hunts through glade and thicket . the fawn may try to elude him by crouching under bush or thicket , for he will take heed to his ways and sin not , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . on this iris fleet as the wind , drew her from the throng , in pain and with her fair skin all besmirched . she found fierce mars waiting on the left of the battle cheering on his men and exhorting them to keep on fighting , for phoebus apollo had spread a great panic among them . he ran up to him ; he then thrust a spear into his breast and kill him ; and diomed shouted out as he left her , daughter of jove , unweariable ; be with me even as you were with my noble father tydeus when he went to thebes as envoy sent by the achaeans . he took the old man s right wrist , in token that he should have curbed his anger and kept out of my reach , for i should have had much trouble with him . take , then , your house fared so well at the hands of jove . remember this . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , get your morning meal , that our hosts join in fight . whet well your spears ; see well to the ordering of your shields ; give good feeds to your horses , and look your chariots carefully over , that we may make a covenant at the ships about the marriage , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a 
