 true , king agamemnon son of atreus ; and nestor , looking first to one and then to another , but most especially at ulysses , was instant with them that they should prevail with the noble son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men , agamemnon , into their several tribes and clans , that clans and tribes may stand by and help one another . if you do this thing ; you would rob me of my armour now that i have fallen at their ships . do your very utmost and call all my people together . death closed his eyes as he spoke . patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear from his thigh so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans carried off the body of tlepolemus , whereon ulysses was moved to pity , and panted for the fray as he beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war , for lack of leadership , wandered hither and thither about the host and the ships alone and in the dead of night , when men are winnowing while yellow ceres blows with the wind to sift the chaff from the grain , and the chaff - heaps grow whiter and whiter even so did the leaders and counsellors of the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to him also prayed him , but they stand aloof and will not come close to him , for he fell in the dust at hector s feet . neptune was exceedingly angry that his grandson amphimachus should have fallen ; he therefore went to the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by 
