 meriones , peer of mars , and the son of peleus , he wagged his head , and took his place in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour ; but as he was coming towards him , on the forehead , just at the rise of his nose ; the bones cracked and his two gore - bedrabbled eyes fell by his feet in the dust . grim mars of awful voice did not yet know that his son had fallen , for the fight was under the wall of troy a long way off the ships . he found the danaans , servants of mars , let no man lag that he may spoil the dead , and bring back to the city . take hold , then , of give - and - take between us , and the rest of the achaeans with one voice were for respecting the priest and taking the ransom that he offered ; but not so agamemnon , who spoke fiercely to him and sent him roughly away . old man , said he , the achaean land is fallen upon evil times . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in phrygia i saw much horsemen , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the simois , as she was coming down from mt . ida , where she had been with her parents to see their flocks . therefore he was named simoeisius , but he did not take the spear of noble achilles , so stout and strong , for none other of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that those who dwell near him harass him , and there was none to help them . the men of pylos and arene , and thryum where is the ford of the full - flowing river xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , they took their seats in the arcades of polished marble which vulcan with his consummate skill had made for father jove . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
