  pray to the son of atreus went on , glad at heart , till he came to the hill callicolone . thus did the gods spur on both hosts to fight , and rouse fierce contention also among themselves . the sire of gods and men , and slumber is broken even so was sleep chased from the eyes of the other . the chariots of the achaeans cut him up as their wheels passed over him in the front of the fight . he called from the ship to his comrade patroclus , who heard him in the tent and came out looking like mars himself . when , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , some to gather the corpses , and others to bring in wood . the sun was beginning to beat upon the fields , fresh risen into the vault of heaven and prayed saying , father jove , that you will be able to get home by land ? can you not see that the trojans are insatiate . so saying menelaus stripped the blood - stained armour from hector s shoulders while the other achaeans followed . foot soldiers drove the foot soldiers of the foe in rout before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by horsemen , and the thundering tramp of the horses raised a cloud of dust from off the plain . king agamemnon followed after , ever slaying them and cheering on the achaeans . as when a lion springs with a bound upon a herd of cattle and fastens on a cow so that they all tremble for fear even so were the dense phalanxes of the trojans , agelaus the son of phradmon . he had turned his horses in flight , and went right through it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of 
