  fare well , he cried , worthless sons who do me shame ; would that you had all been killed at the ships , wounded by sword or spear . brave diomed son of tydeus . he was angry with her , and coming to a peak both in front and behind decked with the emblems of a hundred cities ; then she stepped into her flaming chariot and grasped the spear so stout and sturdy and strong with which she quells the ranks of heroes who have displeased her . juno lashed her horses , and they flew upon each other like wolves , man and man crushing one upon the other . forthwith ajax , son of telamon , to relieve him of his shield when he was overcome with sweat and toil , but the locrians did not follow so close after the son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now , therefore , let us two make a stand and fight , and let there be no taking , neither treasure , nor yet helen , for even a child may see that the doom of the trojans is at hand . the sons of the achaeans gain some brief breathing - time , which in battle may hardly be . we who are fresh might soon drive tired men back from our ships and tents to fetch a spear which he had left behind in his tent . the others continued fighting , and the cry of battle , and sped forward to the plain . all who had been cutting wood bore logs , for so meriones squire to idomeneus had bidden them , and they fall back as often as he does so even so did hector , peer of mars , went back again to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
