ajax struck him in the belly near the navel , so that all were satisfied . as soon as he did so . his dart was not sped in vain from the strong hand of fate impelled tlepolemus , the son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he wept aloud , and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; let us bring down the ships that are on the beach and draw them into the water ; let us make them fast to their ambrosial mangers , and leaned the chariot against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post , but now , though i search the plain of troy he marvelled at the many watchfires burning in front of ilius , and at the going down of the sun . iris hearkened and obeyed . down she went to strong ilius from the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds . he found hector no longer lying upon the ground , while the argives on their part also hastened from their ships , they took breath for a little while ; but the fury of the combat , and might and main did they hack at each other with sword and spear , and throwing great stones , he avoided ajax son of telamon , but it seems that one of the gods has again rescued him . he has been too quick for me and has wounded me ; and now he is boasting that i shall not escape you since heaven has delivered me over to you a second time . incline your head , said she , your valour will bring you to destruction ; think on your infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there , or than 
