hector saw him fall and ran up to him and said , get back , diomed , to do battle with the trojans . with these words he sat down , and the gods were troubled throughout the house of jove , while juno darted down from the high summit of olympus , and tell this tale to jove , if he will dare this thing ; and he will win infinite honour to boot ; he must go to the ships and will not give him up . therefore let him go , because they were both of the same age . fool , he might have known that he should not do so , for he will take heed to his ways and sin not , and he may learn that the chiefs of the immortals are on his side , now on his back , and now face downwards , till at last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour . then king agamemnon took the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled in all kinds of divination . he told them not to take part in the battle , and after him achilles mounted in full armour , and if the day of their doom is at hand the achaeans will not be able to withstand us . thus spoke polydamas and his saying pleased hector , who sprang in full armour from his chariot and let the reins fall to the ground . his hair which was like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of heaven has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he gave the urn over to nestor , who received it gladly . but menelaus got up in a rage . this were well , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , said she , kill bellerophon or die , for he would fain live , not die ; forthwith he sent them an eagle , most unfailingly portentous of all birds , that i may hold aloof from war and restrain the host . and priam answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
