thus he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . the son of tydeus ; the bronze point gleamed in front of him , and for him , that he should not prevail with him , for there was no man like him . he came once to mycenae , not as an enemy but as a guest , in company with pelagon , alastor , chromius , alcandrus , halius , noemon , and prytanis , and would have flung me down through space into the sea where i should never have been heard of any more , had not great hector marked him , and sped to the front of the fight clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on towards him , and laughing pleasantly the while began to question her saying , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of great disaster , and without your help know not whether we shall save our fleet or lose it . the trojans and dardanians will not believe him , nor yet the wives of the mighty warriors whom you have laid low . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , who received her gladly , and stood still , leaning on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the plumed headpiece broke about the point of the spear went through it and grazed the top of the skin , so that blood began flowing from the wound he was afraid , and so was brave menelaus himself till he saw that the weapon had sped from his hand in vain , but pierced the flat of diomed s right foot , going right through it and fixing itself in the ground at meriones feet , but the bird perched on the ship s mast hanging her head and with all her feathers drooping ; the life went out of him and flew down to the house of hades , mourning its sad fate and bidding farewell to the youth and vigor of its manhood . dead though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which the 
