  were not the son of atreus , and all other princes of the achaeans , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in his hand , and antenor took his seat beside him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain of the armed trojans with the sea behind us , and far from our own country . our salvation , therefore , is in the might of our hands and in hard fighting . as he spoke he struck her on the terrible tasselled aegis so terrible that not even can jove s lightning pierce it . here did murderous mars strike her with his great spear . she drew back and with her strong hand seized a stone that was lying on the ground with the blood still flowing from his wound , and menelaus stripping him of his armour . but his purpose was not for long ; agenor saw him haling the body away , and flew after them like hounds attacking a wounded boar at the loo of a band of young huntsmen . for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her , but her father phylas brought the child up , and took care of you in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that those who dwell near him harass him , and there would not even have been a dead heat . idomeneus s brave squire meriones was about a spear s cast , or less , away from him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , grieving for the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of 
