 as he spoke the son of saturn sent iris to the strong city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of atreus , and will bring you goodly armour from king vulcan . on this she left him , still furious at the loss of her that had been taken from him . meanwhile ulysses reached chryse with the hecatomb . when they had put on their armour , take their keen blades , and make trial of one another in the press of the danaans . if all - seeing jove , who had changed his mind and sent her to encourage the danaans . as when jove bends his bright bow in heaven in token to mankind either of war or of the chill storms that stay men from their labour and plague the flocks even so , wrapped in such radiant raiment , did minerva go in among the host and speak man by man to each . first she took the form and voice of calchas . first he spoke to the achaeans . deiphobus then came close up to him , bestrode him , and covered him with his shield . meanwhile his two trusty squires , mecisteus son of echius , and alastor , came up and bore him to the ships groaning in his great pain . jove now again put heart into the trojans , and urged his comrades on to defend him . at first the trojans drove the achaeans back , and they withdrew from the dead man daunted . the trojans did not succeed in killing any one , nevertheless they drew the body away . thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in long discourse with one another . on his head agamemnon set a helmet , with a peak before and behind , and four plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it , and he drew out both spear - point and sarpedon s soul at the same time . hard by the gates they met priam as he was bringing in the body . hector s wife had as yet heard nothing , for no one had come to tell her that her husband had remained without the gates . she was at her loom in an inner part of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds 
