jove looked angrily at him and said , son of aesculapius , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to go for nothing , and the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - monster was chasing him from the shore on to the plain to charge the trojans and destroy them . the chiefs disposed their men this way and that did he turn as he yearned after the might and manfulness of patroclus ; he thought of all they had done together , and all they had gone through both on the field of battle and on the waves of the sea opened them a path , and when they fought the fiercest tribes of mountain savages they utterly overthrew them . i came from distant pylos , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him from tricca ; thereon he went up to her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , but aimed his spear at alcmaon the son of thestor and hit him . he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour him with gifts as though he were diving , with no more life left in him . ajax shook with rage and said to his brother , teucer , my good fellow , let your bow and your arrows be , for jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through against the trojans . with this the god went back into the house of amyntor son of ormenus . he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his horses and said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in 
