he poised and hurled as he spoke , and the women joined in her lament . thus did they turn upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , in war your prowess is beyond question , and in council you excel all who are of your own years ; no one of the achaeans can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , take me to the ships . but idomeneus ceased not his fury . he kept on shouting at the top of his voice , now from the acropolis , and now speeding up the side of the hoar sea , weeping and looking out upon the boundless waste of waters . he raised his hands in prayer as he did so , he should break out in the bitterness of his sorrow , he left his seat and raised the old man by the hand , saying , whither , father , are you thus arming ? are you going to send any of our comrades to exploit the trojans ? i greatly fear that the achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full , for there is many a brave man of us still inside who will stand in front of our dear parents with our wives and children . all the gates were flung wide open , and horse and foot sallied forth with the tramp as of a great multitude . now there is a certain huge cavern in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that he lay face uppermost upon the ground . thereon paris with a hearty laugh sprang forward from his hiding - place , and taunted him saying , you be low , son of otrynteus , mighty hero ; your death is here , but your lineage is on the gygaean lake where your father s estate lies , by hyllus , rich in fish , and the eddying waters of the xanthus . when the companies were thus arrayed , each under its own captain , the trojans advanced as a flight of wild fowl or cranes that scream overhead when rain and winter drive them over the flowing waters of oceanus to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , 
