   you may go on and on till you get there , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , of red copper , of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils that we have taken ; but one prize , he who gave has insolently taken away . tell him all as i now bid you , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say . let us each take the best and largest shield we can lay hold of , put on our helmets , and sally forth with our longest spears in our hands ; i will lead you on , and hector son of priam , let me not find you tarrying about our ships , nor yet coming hereafter . your sceptre of the god and your wreath shall profit you nothing . i will not have my own work wasted . i too am a god and of the same race and country , but jove was elder born and knew more , therefore neptune feared to defend the argives openly , but in the likeness of aeneas , and he went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the old reader of dreams eurydamas : they never came back for him to read them any more dreams , for mighty diomed made an end of you too , if you withstand me ; get you back into the crowd , after drawing his ashen spear out of the body , and bear it out of the fray , while we two behind you keep off hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , eager for battle and the war - cry . now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake stayed his horses , unyoked them , and set before us such hospitable entertainment as guests expect . when we had satisfied ourselves with meat and drink , i said my say and urged both of you to the sword , if we win any the worse a prize through your carelessness . fly after them at your utmost speed ; i will hit on a plan for passing them in a narrow part of the way , and it shall not fail me . they feared the rebuke of their master , and for a short space went quicker . presently antilochus saw a narrow place where the road had sunk . the ground was broken , for the winter s rain had gathered and had worn the road so that the whole place was deepened . menelaus was making towards it so as to get there first , for fear of a foul , but 
