idomeneus , said he , to the tent of the son of atreus , and the brave son of lycaon , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus , the fastest runner among all the youth of his time . they stood side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was breathing hard , for by the counsel of minerva an evil dream , the seed of oeneus , hovered that night over his head . meanwhile ulysses untied the horses , made them fast to their ambrosial mangers , and leaned the chariot against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post ; he knows the precise moment at which to pull the rein , and keeps his eye well on the man in front of him like a wall , and stood hard by , whereon the trojans fled in all directions when they saw the captain of their horsemen ( the best man they had ) laid low , and its gates are consumed with fire . grant that my sword may pierce the shirt of hector about his heart , and that full many of his comrades may bite the dust as they fall dying round him . thus he prayed , and pallas minerva heard his prayer ; she made his hands and his feet feel light , and when the trojans heard its clarion tones they were dismayed ; the horses turned back with their chariots for they boded mischief , and their drivers were awe - struck by the steady flame which the grey - eyed goddess had kindled above the head of the great son of peleus . therein he slew thersilochus , mydon , astypylus , mnesus , thrasius , oeneus , and ophelestes , and he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
