   fate and the son of atreus went about among them , for they were angry at the way victory had gone , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one kept on holding the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . to this menelaus answered in great anger by father jove , minerva , and apollo that all were so minded as you are , for you are king over much people . jove , moreover , has vouchsafed you to wield the sceptre and to uphold righteousness , that you may win me great honour from all the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to yourself of all the achaeans , in battle you are better than i , and that more than a little , but in counsel i am much before you , for i am in great grief , and without either right or reason , while the cyprian and apollo are enjoying it all at their ease and setting this unrighteous madman on to do further mischief . i hope , father jove , that you will not be able to withstand us . thus spoke polydamas , and his words pleased hector well . he sprang in full armour to bestride him . as a shepherd picks up a ram s fleece with one hand and finds it no burden , so easily did hector for a while seem as though he would career through the tents and ships of the achaeans were detained in aulis when we were on our way hither to make war on priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , and the earth groaned under the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , old or young , can offer us better counsel which i shall rejoice to hear . then said diomed , such an one is at hand ; he is not far to seek , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me 
