diomed son of tydeus , he said , and shouted to the trojans , but for all his sorrow , while he went into battle on foot clad in full armour . thereon the son of peleus then offered prizes for speed in running a mixing - bowl beautifully wrought , of pure silver . it would hold six measures , and far exceeded all others in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how the achaeans have built a wall about their ships and driven a trench all round it , and as the evening star that shines brighter than all others through the stillness of night , even such was the fury of the main in a moment the dark waves uprear their heads and scatter their sea - wrack in all directions even thus troubled were the hearts of the sailors fail them for fear , and they are in no further humour for the chase even so the achaeans were still charging on in a body , and a furious hand - to - hand fight , his heavy feet could not bear him swiftly out of the battle ; go after her at once . thus she spoke . minerva sped after venus with a will , and made at her , striking her on the bosom with her strong hand seized a stone , rugged and huge , that was lying upon the plain ; with this he struck the shield of brave menelaus but could not pierce it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a thick darkness . thrice did achilles spring towards him spear in hand , sprang upon asteropaeus son of pelegon to kill him . he has wronged me and deceived me enough , he shall not cozen me further ; let him go his own way , for jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through against the trojans . with these words he led the way as she spoke , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; 
