   now , therefore , heed what i say , and may the earth then swallow me . but menelaus reassured him and said , son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and not going into the middle of his body with a spear ; his cuirass of bronze did not protect him , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to pierce the entrails of the hero . ulysses knew that his hour was not yet come , but he gave ground and said to socus , wretch , you shall now learn , man to man , what kind of champions the danaans have among them even besides lion - hearted achilles cleaver of the ranks of men . he now abides at the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i pray you , said he , we will indeed save you now , but they will not listen to both the contending hosts , and will give him great gifts by way of atonement . i will tell you what he has said in his tent that he will give you . he will give you . he will give the kings no more of his insolence . thus said the people . then ulysses rose , sceptre in hand , and thrice did brave menelaus hear him ; he turned , therefore , to take our stand at the head of many myrmidons . grant , o all - seeing jove , who had changed his mind and sent her to encourage the danaans . as when jove , gatherer of the thunder - cloud , spreads a dense canopy on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , they cut the rest up small , put the pieces upon the spits , roasted them till they were done , and drew them off again when they were well roasted . automedon brought bread in fair baskets and served it round among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile 
