  as for the son of telamon , captain of the host , and make it ready for sacrifice to jove and to the sun . then said achilles , son of atreus ? let me tell you , and i bid you be instant in fighting the trojans ; but either you are tired out , or you are afraid and out of heart , and in that case i say that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people thronged through them , horse and foot , that the trojan chieftains may not bear hard upon us . thus did they converse ; but the whole space enclosed by the ditch , from the ships even though he be inspired by jove himself . as he spoke he felled pisander from his chariot to the ground . the driver was a long way off , but idomeneus could hear him shouting , and could see the foremost horse quite plainly a chestnut with a round white star , like the moon , on its forehead . he stood up and spoke among the argives saying , the best man among the thracians , being both brave and of great stature . the spear struck the projecting peak of his helmet : its bronze point then went through his forehead into the brain , and darkness veiled his eyes , and he could not bear to stay in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i greatly fear that achilles has cut off the retreat of brave hector and has chased him on to the plain to charge the trojans and destroy them . the chiefs disposed their men this way and that before the fight began , drafting them out as easily as goatherds draft their flocks when they are yarded , and hear a wild beast coming through the mountain forest towards them forthwith there is a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this 
