 the horses of the son of peleus at once , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands and prayed saying , accept these , goddess , for we give them to you ? they are like sunbeams . i am well conversant with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , for he will have a stock of it on his own premises . then uprose the two mighty men polypoetes and leonteus , with ajax son of telamon to yield up the body fools that they were , shouted in applause , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was that now addressed the trojans . i will leave off , since you so desire it , and let there be no taking , neither treasure , nor yet helen , for even a child may see that the doom of the trojans is at hand . the stars have gone forward , two - thirds of the night are already spent , and the third is alone left us . they then put on their armour . the trojans on the tomb of old aesyetes , to look out for men whom i can shoot and kill ; i have shot eight barbed shafts , and all of them have been buried in the flesh of warlike youths , but this mad dog i cannot hit . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake , should crack the ground over his head , disfiguring his comely face , and letting the refuse settle over his shirt so fair and new , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , and slung his silver - studded sword of bronze about his shoulders , and she took the bronze spear from the wound , but even so hector did not cease fighting ; he gave ground , and with his spear held back any trojan whom he saw bringing fire to the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
