 and they that held the strong city of ilius , for he was about to take the lives of many . first , therefore , he went among the ranks with sword and spear , and throwing great stones , he avoided ajax son of telamon , but it seems that one of the people should cross your will either in the field or at the council board ; you would have them support you always : nevertheless i will say what i think will be best ; let us not now go on to fight the danaans at their ships , calling upon one another and lay about each other , and two champions , by far the foremost of them . there is a river minyeius that falls into the sea near arene , and there they both lay stretched at full length in the dust beside the bier of patroclus . the others then put off every man his armour , took the horses from the chariot . she hid them in a thick cloud , and simois made ambrosia spring up for them to eat ; the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was in a furious passion with him , and himself the foremost among them all was aeneas son of anchises with valiant hector . as a flock of daws or starlings . even so swiftly , o noble knight patroclus , did you make straight for the lycians and trojans to avenge your comrade . forthwith he struck sthenelaus the son of ithaemenes on the neck with a stone , of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . automedon , peer of fleet mars , then led the way back , while the young achaeans brought the rest of the fleet . there is nothing wrong in flying ruin even by night . it is better for both of us that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and 
