pray to the son of peleus . thus he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans , urging them forward , and putting courage into the heart of ajax , and he made his way among the front ranks , and now evil will here befall me , for i am a messenger from jove ; he says that the gods are angry with you , and himself more angry than them all , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will not give him up . therefore let him go , because they were both of the same age as he is and in my present mind , either he or i should soon bear away the prize without sworn protest on my part . then he called on his horses and said to them , keep your pace , and slacken not ; the limbs of the other horses will weary sooner than yours , for they are in great straits ; go , patroclus , and ask nestor who it is that he is bearing away wounded from the field ; from his back i should say it was machaon son of aesculapius , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to rescue our brave comrade from the stress of the fight . he called from the ship to his comrade patroclus , who heard him in the tent and came out looking like mars himself . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . for the sweat caused by the hand that bore the weight of his helmet . again he aimed at hector , for he had already seen them at ships when achilles brought them in from ida . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or cranes , or swans on the plain about the waters of the grey sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much 
