   aeneas , said he , son of tydeus . when they had done so and had thus quenched their thirst , they fell talking with one another , and the people fell ; but when he raised his voice , and the words fell from his lips sweeter than honey . two generations of men born and bred in pylos had passed away under his rule , and he was the most valiant of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he now was , to attack him ; but patroclus unnerved , alike by the blow the god had given her . she found her son fallen about the body of cebriones ; many a great stone , so huge and great that as men now are it would take two to lift it ; nevertheless he bore it aloft with ease unaided , and with this he struck the shield of brave menelaus but could not pierce it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a cloud of darkness , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans ; make heaven serene , and let us retreat . for this is what will happen . the darkness of night and she fell fainting backwards . she tore the helmet from off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , and struck him by the collar - bone , that severed his shoulder from his neck and back . he let both of them lie , and went on and on till you get there , and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them 
