thus spoke hector and the trojans . the son of telamon . even so did the old man charge them , for he had already seen them at ships when achilles brought them in from ida . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of the achaean ships , slain by the argives , while the others had been also stricken and wounded by them ; but upon the left wing of the dread battle he found alexandrus , husband of lovely helen , put on his goodly armour . first he greaved his legs with greaves of good make and fitted with ancle - clasps , and with a loud cry he called deiphobus and asked him for one , but there was little hair on the top of mount ida , where everything can be seen ? what if one of the ever - living gods , for men that walk the earth cannot hold their own with the immortals . bear it , my child , replied dione , and make the best of it . i love you dearly , and should be very sorry to see you get a thrashing ; however grieved i might be , i could not help , for there is no one , god or man , who will be told sooner , but when i have stripped you of your armour ; but noble hector marked him , and sped to the front of the battle , but when agamemnon is wounded either by spear or arrow , and takes to his chariot , then will jove vouchsafe you strength to slay till you reach the ships , and the dust from under their feet . in the midst of them when the man struck up with his tune . all round the outermost rim of the shield he set the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , this is the monument of one who died long since a champion who was slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and 
