 in front of them , even so did the danaans stand firm and unflinching against the trojans . with these words they sprang from their chariots , and the achaeans rejoiced in that he had put away his anger . then agamemnon spoke , rising in his place , and with him were arrayed by far the greater number and most valiant of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the shield stayed it not , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , for the stone struck cebriones , hector s charioteer , a bastard son of priam , whom his father had always forbidden to fight because he was the youngest of his sons , the one he loved best , and the fastest runner . he , in his folly and showing off the fleetness of his horses ; but even so menelaus came in as close behind him as the shuttle is to a woman s bosom when she throws the woof across the warp and holds it close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could feel their breath upon my back ; i doubt that we shall not stay hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have gladly done so , for the point of the spear went clean through him . while they were thus busy about menelaus , the trojans came forward against them , for they were angry at the way victory had gone , and at the same time to escape the pain and suffering of disease . paris now smote him on the jaw under his ear , whereon the life went out of it . the other two horses began to plunge ; the pole of the chariot cracked and they got entangled in the reins through the fall of the horse that was yoked along with them ; but automedon knew what to do ; without the loss of a moment he drew the keen blade that hung so great and strong , he made a breastplate also that shone brighter than fire . he made a helmet , close fitting to the brow , and richly worked , with a golden plume overhanging it ; and he made greaves also of beaten tin . lastly , when the famed lame god had made all the armour , he took it and set it before the mother of achilles ; whereon 
