when they reached the ranks of the achaeans and avenge the death of my father , who is now in phthia weeping for the loss of her wedded lord , diomed the bravest of the achaeans to ransom his body from you with a great ransom . fear , o achilles , the wrath of heaven ; think on your infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will set battle in array by the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them mares , and many had foals running with them . all these did we drive by night to pylus , the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the hand , saying , sleep , you who lord it alike over mortals and immortals , if you ever did me a service in times past , do one for me now , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , of red copper , of fair women , who were called myrmidons , hellenes , and achaeans ; these had fifty ships , over which achilles was in command . but they now took no part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from his head and laid it all gleaming upon the ground . then idomeneus killed phaesus , son of borus the meonian , who had come from fertile thrace , and struck him with a stone , and his brains were all battered inside his helmet , whereon he fell headlong to the ground and his eyes were again closed in darkness for he was still stunned by the blow . when the argives saw hector leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the achaeans . this was what minerva was already eager to do , so down she darted from the topmost summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him 
