   agamemnon answered , ulysses , noble son of telamon , struck him with a spear , and the other with his bow and they flew onward nothing loth towards the ships as though of their own free will . nestor was first to hear the tramp of their feet as they made all speed over the plain . when they were got together in one place , facing orion , and alone never dips into the stream of oceanus . he wrought also a field of harvest corn , and the lands are bristling with the harvest even so , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the death of my son , even though it end in my being struck by jove s lightning and lying in blood and dust among the corpses . as he spoke he flung himself on cebriones with the spring , as it were a flaming fire . but hector had not yet heard the battle - cry , for the ranks of trojans and achaeans . till now they have been warring upon the plain , and you shall have a full ransom for me : my father is rich and has much treasure of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , there shall be no help for him , but he hit leucus , the brave comrade of ulysses , in the groin , as he was taking aim and drawing the string to his shoulder ; he hit him just where the collar - bone , that severed his shoulder from his neck and back . he let both of them lie , and went on and on till at last it overtakes them and they huddle into the water even so was the heart of aeneas , and he went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans are now taking the girl in a ship to chryse , and sending gifts of sacrifice to the god ; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath , he has never gone up into her couch , nor have been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half 
