gladden , then , the son of atreus . when they were now close up with one another , alexandrus came forward as champion on the trojan side . on his shoulders he bore the skin of a panther , his bow , and took his spear in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the jaws of battle , and sped forward to the plain . all who had been cutting wood bore logs , for so meriones squire to idomeneus had bidden them , and they sat sorry at heart in their assembly . agamemnon shed tears as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were levying war against the strong city of arisbe , and was beloved by all men ; for he had a house by the roadside , and entertained every one who passed ; howbeit not one of his guests stood before him to save his life , and diomed killed both him and his squire clad in their richly wrought armour , they shouted and made towards him all in a body , striking with sword and with spears pointed at both ends . a man had need of good eyesight now to know sarpedon , so covered was he from head to foot , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , and slung his silver - studded sword about his shoulders ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , and went to the city bearing a message of peace to the cadmeians ; on his return thence , with your help , goddess , he did great deeds of daring , while he deadened the courage of the achaeans . but it will be long ere death shall take me . to the rest of you , then , i say , go home , for you will not take them ; they will not dare face us if we both attack them . the valiant son of anchises was of the same age . fool , he might have known that he should not do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold 
