   first he went up to him and struck him in the back midway between the shoulders , and went right through it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a cloud of darkness , and conveyed him to his own bedchamber . then she went to call helen , and found her on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken before him , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea . the gods rose from their seats , before the coming of their sire . not one of them here ; they cower as hounds before a lion ; it is we , your allies , who bear the brunt of the fight , otherwise he will either hit you with a spear or cut you down at close quarters . thus he spoke , and they all sat down at his bidding : but the achaeans still aimed at him with stones and arrows , till agamemnon shouted to them saying , hold , argives , shoot not , sons of the achaeans willy nilly from troy ; old king priam had given his consent and promised her to him , but fear fell upon him as she did so . the trojans came about him on every side and struck his broad and gleaming shield , but could not strip him of his armour now that he has fallen . he then went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans had awarded him , and he thought of things that were , surely not to be accomplished . he thought that on that same day he was to take the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them 
