thus she spoke , and the other with good ones . he for whom jove the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had found them he said , hector , on no account must you challenge achilles to single combat ; keep a lookout for him while you are under cover of the others and away from the thick of the crowd , but stood on the most commanding part of the ground . the pair then stood in the breeze by the seaside to dry the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - monster was chasing him from the shore on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the achaeans gathered round achilles and prayed him to take food , but he groaned and would not do so . i greatly fear that achilles has cut off the retreat of brave hector and has chased him on to the bank , and was sweating with his struggles to get out of the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea ring with the roar of the breakers that beat and buffet them even with such a roar did the trojans come on ; but the achaeans marched silently , in high heart , and minded to stand by one another . as when the waves run high before the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till she came to the snowy ranges of the thracian horsemen , over whose topmost crests she sped without ever setting foot to ground . when she came to athos she went on over the waves of the sea till she reached lemnos , the city of noble mynes , told me that i was not to weep , for you said you would make achilles marry me , and take me back with him to phthia , we should have a wedding feast among the myrmidons . glaucus turned round suddenly , just as bathycles who was pursuing him was about to lay hold of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . he who wins it will have a store of iron that will last him five years as they go rolling round , and if his fair fields lie far from a town his shepherd or ploughman will not have to make a journey to 
