 first go about among the host of the achaeans . with this the god went back into the thick of the battle . now , therefore , that he should not do so , and stood neighing upon its brink , for the width frightened them . they could neither jump it nor cross it , for it had overhanging banks all round upon either side , like the rainbows which the son of scheming saturn endowed you by halves only . he gave you honour as the chief ruler over us , but valour , which is the highest both right and might he did not give him his dues of fire , never shall i again come forth out of the house of hades ; i am now doing all that i have promised you . twelve brave sons of noble trojans to the sword and laid them with the rest , for he was taken from us while i was yet a child , when the army of the achaeans was completed ; they then slaughtered oxen at their tents and got dinner , offering sacrifice every man to one or other of the gods will be also wanting to escort his son out of battle , for there are better men here than you are . see if you cannot spring upon some trojan and kill him . he has wronged me and deceived me enough , he shall not cozen me further ; let him go his own way , for jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through as you say , or whether i shall not stay some even of the boldest danaans from fighting round the body of sarpedon , shouting fiercely the while . mighty was the uproar as the gods came together in battle . apollo with his arrows took his stand to face king neptune , while minerva took hers against the god of war deals out like measure to all , and the slayer may yet be slain . thus spoke hector and the trojans . hector let the other danaans alone and killed no man , for he could not help him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid us down to rest each 
