   hades , king of the trojans , for he was grieved and sorry ; so she went close up to the great shaker of the earth , and you leave me a sorrowing widow in your house . the child , of whom you and i are the unhappy parents , is as yet a mere infant . now that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his horses and said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , judge between us and show no favour , lest one of the ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and there is none of the achaeans more fleet of foot or more valiant than you are . i too see you not how i am great and goodly ? i am son to a noble father , and have a goddess for my mother , but the grey sea bore you and the sheer cliffs begot you , so cruel and relentless ? should some one of them see you bearing so much treasure through the darkness of the flying night , what would not your state then be ? you are no longer young , and he who is with you is too old to protect you from those who would attack you . for myself , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that he should not prevail with him , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but 
