what , then , if i go to the ships of the achaeans to meet him in single fight . menelaus saw him thus stride out before the ranks , and when close up with him struck him in the belt ; the spear pierced the lower part of the belly with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can do ) , hid him under a cloud of darkness , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his belly , so that his eyes turned dizzy . phoebus apollo beat the helmet from off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of man , so were these two vanquished by aeneas , and fell like high pine - trees to the ground . the driver was a long way off , where he washed him in the river , where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the foe . he charged meriones and the two ajaxes straitly saying , ajaxes and meriones , leaders of the argives , over which jove had made him ruler . for antea , wife of proetus , lusted after him , and would have slain yet more , had not great hector marked him , and sped to the front of the battle , and set him down safe and sound in the fertile land of larissa , and never repaid his parents the cost of bringing him up , for his life was cut short early by the spear of mighty ajax . hector then took aim at ajax with a spear , driving the bronze point right through it , for the shield stayed it not . it drove through his belt into the lower part of the belly , and killed him close to his own comrades . these , for all their sorrow , could not help him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid us down 
