 hector shouted to him and said , son of atreus , said he , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of hector , and that he will fling himself upon our ships . i wish that some one would go and tell the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre and lay down , overcome with toil , till he fell into a sweet slumber . presently they who were about the ships and served out rations , all came to the place of assembly because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way as he spoke and hurled it . his aim was true , and the spear severed all the muscles at the root of his tongue , coming out under his chin , and his glistening armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily from the car . the squires of idomeneus spoiled him of his armour , and he laughed aloud as he sped swiftly on his way . forthwith he came upon his brother hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set upon you in a body and be at hand to take him away when i have done with him . they all held their peace , till at last diomed of the loud battle - cry made answer saying , son of priam , why are you weeping ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , deiphobus , you have always been , or even better sarpedon is fallen he who was at once the right and might of lycia ; mars has laid him low by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus 
