ajax struck him in the lower part of his belly , and he fell headlong from the car , and there was a tramp as of a great multitude death - cry and shout of triumph of slain and slayers , and the earth groaned under the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or cranes , or long - necked swans even so did hector follow close upon the achaeans , ever killing the hindmost as they rushed panic - stricken onwards . when they had come inside the harbour they furled the sails and laid them in the ship s hold ; they slackened the forestays , lowered the mast into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where they had killed hector s scout , ulysses stayed his horses , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships of the myrmidons . they found achilles sitting by his tent and his ships , and ill - pleased he was when he beheld them . he doubted whether to pursue the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the achaeans can run against him save only achilles . he said this because he feared for menelaus . diomed answered , if you , juno , were always to support me when we sit in council of the gods , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . when he had thus spoken his eyes were closed in darkness . idomeneus speared erymas in the mouth ; the bronze point of the spear pierced him through and came out by the navel , whereon he fell headlong . the two then rushed at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in the presence of the immortals , for i will befriend you . nay , drive straight at mars , and smite him in close combat ; fear not this raging madman , villain incarnate , first on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much , for he 
