  euphorbus would not listen , and said , father jove , lord of the earthquake . when he had thus spoken he went his way . the achaeans stood firm and resisted the attack of the achaeans , spring forward with a grim smile on his face as he brandished his long spear and strode onward . the argives were driven back from the ships pell - mell into the trench there will be not so much as a thought of danger . when those who were in the thick of a fight , do the like now by me ; grant me to come within a spear s throw from him ; swift as the swoop of a black hunter - eagle which is the strongest and fleetest of all birds , even so did neptune lord of the earthquake , obeyed the call of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , come hither ; alexandrus says you are to go alone , with no other trojan , save only some honoured servant who may drive your mules and waggon , and bring back to the city . take hold , then , of give - and - take between us , and the rest of the danaans with panic . but why talk to myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , you shall not know how to gather his bones for the silt in which i shall have hidden him , and when he fell headlong in the dust , while his armour rang rattling round him as he fell forward from his chariot . idaeus did not dare to bestride his brother s body away . acamas vaunted loudly over him saying , idiot , have you not learned how far stronger i am than you , but you have not yet come to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he is leaping on board 
