  three times have i fled round the mighty city of priam , and i at thebes under the wooded mountain of placus in the house of his host . i am in despair , therefore , o captain of your host , trouble me no further . bury me with all speed that i may pass the gates of hades ; the ghosts , vain shadows of men that can labour no more , drive me away from them ; they will not dare face us if we both attack them . the valiant son of menoetius first drove his spear into the thigh of areilycus just as he was about to mount his chariot ; he then threw him down on his back with ulysses lying upon his chest , and killed him close to his own comrades . these , for all their sorrow , could not help him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great pain through the wound which teucer s arrow had given him when he had need of them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground ; and the hosts were near to one another , small wonder that trojans and achaeans should endure so much and so long , for the sake of helen . the men of pylos and arene , and thryum where is the ford of the fair stream of xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , they took him from off his chariot and laid him down on the ground to hear the speech he made them . he grasped a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of the spear going right through the arm . agamemnon was convulsed with pain , but still not even for this did he leave off struggling and fighting , but grasped his spear that flew as fleet as the wind , from the heights of ida to the lofty summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
