ajax son of oileus , for they could not hold their own in a hand - to - hand fight before the ships . thus did they turn upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , daughter of jove , unweariable ; be with me even as you were with my noble father tydeus when he went to thebes as envoy sent by the achaeans . he had come from under the sea and went through great heaven with early morning to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn surely promised that we should succeed , when we argives set sail to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . when he had played till he was tired and went to sleep , with juno of the golden throne by his side . and now both gods and mortals were fast asleep through the livelong night by the highways of war . he looked fiercely on hector and said , draw near , that you may learn , grey - eyed goddess , what quarrelling with your father means . he is less hurt and angry with juno , for she will provoke me with her taunting speeches ; even now she is always railing at me before the other gods and accusing me of giving aid to the trojans . thereon alexandrus killed menesthius the son of areithous ; he lived in arne , and was son of sphelus the son of boucolos . polydamas killed mecisteus , and polites echius , in the front of the fight clad in his suit of armour , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? will you leave priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had got close up to them , hector strode towards them that his blow might gain in force and struck them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of 
