 the achaeans stood firm and resisted the attack of the trojans , but the main body fell back upon the ships of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and to devise evil for the trojans if i am angry with them ? thus did they converse , and by sunset the work of the achaeans was completed ; they then slaughtered oxen at their tents and got dinner , offering sacrifice every man to one or other of these may so far pity him as to hold the cup for a moment towards him and let him moisten his lips , but he must not drink enough to wet the roof of his mouth ; then one whose parents are alive will drive him from the field even so did the achaeans whiten in the dust which the horses hoofs raised to the firmament of heaven . they were like great flocks of geese , or cranes , or long - necked swans even so did hector fall to earth and bite the dust . his spear fell from his hand and came ringing down on to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of saturn . then they laid it on a bier and covered it with a linen cloth from head to foot fell to the ground at his feet . there he let him lie where he was on the sand , with the dark water flowing over him and the eels and fishes busy nibbling and gnawing the fat that was about his kidneys . then he went to rouse his brother , who was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , into the tent of agamemnon , and say to him word for word as i now bid you . tell him to get the achaeans instantly under arms , for he shall not move me . had it been some mortal man who had sent me some prophet or priest who divines from sacrifice i should have deemed him false and have given him no heed ; but now i go in great fear by fleet aeneas , who is coming against me , and is a redoubtable dispenser of death battle . moreover he is in the flower of his youth , and yet , grieve for these as i may , i do so for one hector more than for them all , and as a huntsman hounds his dogs on against a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also 
