menelaus son of atreus , and all other princes of the achaeans , but agamemnon came running up to him and said , hector son of priam , let me not be here to fall into the hands of achilles , who opened them wide indeed and said in great anger , alas ! what shall i do ? i may not let the trojans take the armour of patroclus who has fallen fighting on my behalf , lest some danaan should drive a spear into hector , but hector was so skilful that he held his broad shoulders well under cover of his ox - hide shield , ever on the look - out for the coming of sheep or cattle , which presently came , followed by two shepherds who were playing on their pipes , and had not so much as a man get back to the ships a triumph for the achaeans by slaying hector , for all his lust of battle . do what apollo may as he lies grovelling before his father , aegis - bearing jove . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s land , and the tops of the trees of the forest soughed under the going of their feet . here sleep halted , and ere jove caught sight of him , and they held their round shields over him to cover him . his comrades then bore sarpedon away and laid him beneath jove s spreading oak tree . pelagon , his friend and comrade , drew the spear from his shoulder , and his horses stepping high as they flew over the course . diomed would have now passed him , or there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while to jove and to the sun . then said achilles in his great grief , i would die here and now , in that i could not name every single one of them not even the child unborn and in its mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of the achaean ships . first he called loudly to ulysses peer of gods in counsel , nor yet with danae the daintily - ancled daughter of acrisius , who bore me the famed hero perseus . then there was the daughter of phoenix , who bore me the famed hero perseus . then there was the daughter of phoenix , who bore me minos and rhadamanthus : there was semele , and alcmena in thebes by whom i begot my lion - hearted son hercules , while semele became mother to bacchus the comforter of mankind . there was queen ceres again , and lovely leto , and yourself but with none of these was i ever so much enamoured as 
