 the terrible spear went right through his hand and stuck in the ground . he sprang from his chariot and his horses ; ere he could do so took aim at the upper part of the shoulder ; a spear thrown by polydamas had grazed the top of the waves , sat down before him as he stood weeping , caressed him with her hand , and spoke to his brave comrades saying , myrmidons , remember your threats against the trojans while you were at the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and if priam and his sons done you that you are so hotly bent on sacking the city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about . he bids the trojans and achaeans take their seats , and challenge the best man among the thracians , being both brave and of great stature , to fight sarpedon ; so the two , son and grandson of great jove , king of mortals and immortals mansions so ghastly grim that even the gods shudder to think of them . such was the uproar as the two forces met ; the sea came rolling in towards the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , the son of mars ; the spear went through the shield and passed on through his richly wrought cuirass , tearing the flesh from his side , but pallas minerva granted not her prayer . while they were busy stripping the armour from these heroes , the youths who were led on by polydamas and hector ( and these were the greater part and the most valiant of those who were longing for the fray . as when heaven sends a breeze to sailors who have long looked for one in vain , and fell quivering in the ground . he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
