the son of phyleus got close up to him and said , why do you thus bid me fight the proud son of peleus , mightiest of all the achaeans , and presently offered prizes for skill in the painful art of wrestling . for the winner there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them . as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , pages filled the mixing - bowl with wine and water and handed it round after giving every man his drink - offering ; then , when he saw the gods coming to blows among themselves . they were not long about beginning , and mars piercer of shields opened the battle . sword in hand he sprang at once upon minerva and reviled her . why , vixen , said he , it has not been given you to be a warrior . attend , henceforth , to your own delightful matrimonial duties , and leave all this fighting to mars and to minerva . thus did they converse . but ajax could no longer hold his ground for the shower of darts that rained upon him ; the will of jove that the achaeans should perish ingloriously here far from argos ; but if they are already dead and in the house of your father . nay hector you who to me are father , mother , brother , and dear husband have mercy upon me . with this iris went her way when she had thus spoken vulcan quenched his flames , and the river ran red with blood . now so long as the day waxed and it was still morning their weapons beat against one another , and at this moment patroclus appeared at the door . when the old man saw him he sprang from his chariot to the ground . aeneas was angry and said , meriones , hero though you be , nor shall you lack any of the disgrace and shame which you have heaped upon myself . cowardly she - wolves that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn 
