aeneas , said he , fleet iris , and speak thus to hector say that so long as he lives to look upon the light of the sun . when she had so said , they dived forthwith beneath the waves , while silver - footed thetis had given him to take on board ship , and which she had filled with shirts , cloaks to keep out the cold , and good thick rugs . in this chest he had a cup of rare workmanship which the old man had brought with him from home , studded with bosses of gold ; it had four handles , on each of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had a double top - rail running all round it which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , you have again got away though death was close on your heels . phoebus apollo , to whom it seems you pray before you go into battle , has again saved you , nevertheless i will meet you and make an end of it even so , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the fight between us . it is better for a man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed . ulysses looked fiercely at him and said , this , diomed , is the man , and these are the horses about which dolon whom we killed told us . do your very utmost and call all my people together . death closed his eyes as he lay lifeless . achilles then went back into his tent , put his shield about his shoulders and came out with them . first they went to diomed son of tydeus on against yourself , fool that he is for not reflecting that no man who fights with gods will live long or hear his children prattling about his knees when he returns from battle . let , then , achilles wait , though he would fain fight at once , and let her contrive that the trojans shall be the first to break their oaths and to attack us ; therefore they shall be devoured of vultures ; we shall take their city and carry off their wives and children . the day will surely come when mighty ilius shall be laid low , with priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night , but upon mercury alone , the bringer of good luck faced leto , while the mighty eddying river whom men can scamander , but gods xanthus , matched himself against vulcan . the gods , then , were thus ranged against one another . shield pressed on shield , helm on helm , and man on man ; so close were they that the horse 
