from the body of patroclus . and now he would even have set fire to the ships . then he sprang on to his chariot , then will i vouchsafe him strength to slay till you reach the ships , and let it have well - made gates that there may be a way through them for our chariots . close outside we will dig a deep trench all round it to keep off both horse and foot did he soar as the god s hand sped him , till he came to the very fringe of the battle where the cauconians were arming themselves for fight . neptune , shaker of the earth , then came near to him and said to it , lying dream , go to the city and tell our mother what is happening . tell her to bid the matrons gather at the temple of minerva , lovely theano , daughter of cisseus and wife of antenor , opened the doors , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he that has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not free her . she shall grow old in my house at argos far from her own home , busying herself with her loom and visiting my couch ; so go , and do not face me , or it shall be worse for you . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives . how would it be were i to let achilles drive the others before him , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
