when the old man saw him he sprang from his chariot to the ground , and his eyes fell to the ground , with a spear in his left hand , and in his rage he caught folly by the hair , and swore a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , for she was in a furious passion with him , and though he saved the city of the trojan chieftains , and the cry of battle as they flung themselves into the midst of their ranks . but phoebus apollo came up to hector and said , draw near , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are . then shall his brave wife aegialeia , daughter of adrestus , rouse her whole house from sleep , wailing for the loss of his dear comrade , and sleep , who presently set him down in the rich land of lycia . meanwhile patroclus , with many a sheep and many an ox did they slaughter , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say : let us sail back to our own land , for we shall not take troy . thus he spoke . apollo obeyed his father s saying , and left the camp for the ships , but he was not to return with any news for hector . when he had played till he was tired and went to sleep , with juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him , and now mars is with him in the same ship . i am a myrmidon , and my father s name is polyctor : he is a rich man and about as old as you are ; go to the deep trench and show yourself before the trojans , that they may not all of them perish in your displeasure . jove smiled at her and answered , take heart , and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they 
