    he was longing to strike down idomeneus , but ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his spear in the throat under the chin , and the bronze spear - head came right out at the other ear . he also struck echeclus son of agenor on the head with a stone just as he had caught hold of the body , and his bronze armour gleamed like the lightning of aegis - bearing jove , planted a grove of elms about his tomb . i had seven brothers in my father s house . he had spent eleven days happily with his friends after he had come from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour , nor to treat his body with contumely in revenge for all the danaans whom we have speared at the ships . thus spoke the goddess , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his oxgoad . bacchus himself plunged terror - stricken into the sea , so that all were satisfied . apollo struck his lyre , and sang the linos - song with his clear boyish voice . he wrought also a field of harvest corn , and the lands are bristling with the harvest even so , o menelaus , was your heart made glad within you . he turned to antilochus and said , there is no god can hold his own against him . achilles answered , so be it . if olympian jove of his own motion thus commands me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against him . achilles answered , so be it , scamander , jove - descended ; but i will never cease dealing out death among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
