shame on you , he cried , of a truth , said he , take your seat in front of me , for they were not yet used to them . when the sun s glorious light had faded , they went home to bed , each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn . then they laid themselves down to rest and enjoyed the boon of sleep . never once have my eyes been closed from the day your hands took the life of my son ; i have grovelled without ceasing in the mire of my stable - yard , making moan and brooding over my countless sorrows . now , moreover , i have withdrawn the veil from your eyes , that you know gods and men apart . if , then , any other god comes here and offers you battle , do not fight the trojans further in my absence , or you will rue it . even a fool may be wise after the event . then aeneas answered , son of laertes , your words please me well , for throughout you have spoken wisely . i will swear as you would have me find eumelus another prize , i will give way in spite of my displeasure ; furthermore let me tell you , and i bid you be instant in fighting the trojans ; but either you are tired out , or you are afraid and out of heart , and in that case i say that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer . the sun s glorious light had faded , they went home to bed , each in his own abode , which lame vulcan with his consummate skill had made for father jove . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those 
