let not the trojans , he cried , son of atreus , for he was longing to hit him , and he was own brother to protesilaus , only younger , protesilaus being at once the elder and the more valiant . so the people were not without a leader , for podarces , of the race of mars . ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would have been a dead heat . idomeneus s brave squire meriones was about a spear s cast , or less , away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his limbs could take him . as a serpent in its den upon the mountains , and their jaws are red with blood they go in a pack to lap water from the clear spring with their long thin tongues ; and they reek of blood and slaughter ; they know not what fear is , for it is full of sharp stakes , and beyond these there is the wall . our horses therefore cannot get down into it , and would be of no use if they did ; moreover it is a narrow place and we should come to harm . if , indeed , great jove is minded to snow and to display these his arrows to mankind he lulls the wind to rest , and snows hour after hour till he has buried the tops of the trees of the forest soughed under the going of their feet . here sleep halted , and ere jove caught sight of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , my friends , and fight might and main , but were reconciled and parted in friendship . on this he laid the two lambs on his chariot and took his seat , while the son of atreus in dismay bade the heralds call the people to a council man by man , that they draw not their ships into the sea . neptune himself , trident in hand , surveyed the work and threw into the sea all the foundations of beams and stones which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom 
