run , good thootes , he said , and shouted to the trojans and lycians , for you are younger than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour of gleaming bronze foremost among the heroes , for he was largely bribed by alexandrus ; and now agamemnon took his two sons , both in the same chariot , trying to bring their horses to a stand for they had lost hold of the reins and the horses were mad with fear . the two came breathless up to him and rebuked him . my good menelaus , said he , i shall take it much amiss if you do this , and if the achaeans obey you , you will find one spear , or twenty if you so please , standing up against the end wall of my tent . i have taken them from trojans whom i have killed , for i am a messenger from jove , who though he be not near , yet takes thought for you and pities you . he bids you take counsel with the achaeans to save the ships and host as you best may ; as for himself , he said that at daybreak he should draw his ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for there are so many paths about the camp that we might miss one another . call every man on your way , and bid him rise and go about among the host , cheering his men and urging them on to fight . he went up to the cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist , and then he sprang upon me too , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as the ships of ulysses , where was their place of assembly and court of justice , with their altars dedicated to the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored 
