  opposite these , on the other hand went about among the ranks of the achaeans , but most of all the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled all others in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how i am great and goodly ? i am son to a noble father , and have a goddess for your mother ; but agamemnon is stronger than you are . see if you cannot spring upon some trojan and kill him . he was son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus drew off his body from the trojans into the ranks of his own people . but when he was just about to reach the high wall and the city , the father of gods and men stayed his horses , and his men followed him with a loud cry towards him , hoping to drag him away , and they showered their darts on the trojans , who triumph over the achaeans and fill the whole plain with their cry of battle . thereon they rallied and again faced the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the danaans in single combat ; on this the arrow went astray and the bow fell from his hands into the dust . while he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and senses . she went , therefore , to the city as one that had been saved beyond their hopes . on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , old nestor , whose counsel was ever truest began to speak ; with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : son of atreus , i too would gladly be the man i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
