he would even have set fire to the ships . on this he made his way to the host of the trojans , euphorbus son of panthous , with the reins in his hands and lashed the horses on , and the battle - cry rose to heaven without ceasing . aeneas sprang on aphareus son of caletor , and struck him with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of amphimachus , and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it had been a ball , till it fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans chose for me , whom i won as the fruit of my spear on having sacked a city her has king agamemnon taken from me as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly . we know one another s race and parentage as matters of common fame , though neither have you ever seen my parents nor i yours . men say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i had converse with you upon the couch of love in the island of lemnos , and there i lay , with very little life left in me , till the sintians came and tended me . juno smiled at this , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
