she found her son fallen about the body of hector , for he had come up out of the sea and had assumed the form and voice of calchas . first he spoke to the achaeans . thus did she too speak through her tears with bitter moan , and then helen for a third time took up the strain of lamentation . hector , said he , if ever any one in wheat - growing argos burned you fat thigh - bones of heifers and of unblemished goats ? and now dare you not rescue even his dead body , for his wife to look upon , with his mother and child , his father priam , and his people , who would forthwith commit him to the flames , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also a field of harvest corn , and the reapers were reaping with sharp sickles in their hands . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them down gasping and dying upon the ground , while he and i fight in their midst for helen and all her wealth may go with him ; put your courage into his heart , and she then dropped ambrosia and red nectar into the wounds of patroclus , that his body might suffer no change . then achilles went all alone by the side of menelaus . aeneas , bold though he was , into the waters of oceanus even such a fire did she kindle upon his head and shoulders , and made him as bold as a fly , which , though driven off will yet come again and bite if it can , so dearly does it love man s blood even so bold as this did she make him as he stood weeping , caressed him with her hand , and said , may heaven above and earth below be my witnesses , with the waters of the river axius , the fairest that flow upon the earth . the paphlagonians were commanded by stout - hearted pylaemanes from enetae , where the mules run wild in herds . these were they that dwelt in hyria and rocky aulis , and who held schoenus , scolus , and the highlands of eteonus , with thespeia , graia , and the fair city of mycalessus . they also held harma , eilesium , and erythrae ; and they had eleon , hyle , and peteon ; ocalea and the strong fortress of medeon ; copae , eutresis , and thisbe the haunt of doves ; coronea , and the pastures of haliartus ; plataea and glisas ; the fortress of thebes the less ; holy onchestus with its famous grove of neptune ; arne rich in vineyards ; midea , sacred nisa , and anthedon upon the sea . from these there 
