the son of atreus , and the achaeans will send some other champion to fight hector ; fearless and fond of battle though he be , i ween his knees will bend gladly under him if he comes out alive from the hurly - burly of the fight . harpalion son of king pylaemenes then sprang upon him ; he had come from fertile ascania on the preceding day with hector in full triumph ; this way did they fly pell - mell , and juno sent down a thick mist in front of them , even so did he move convulsively for a while , but not for very long , till meriones came up and drew the spear from his body , whereon his senses came out along with it , and he has given it good strong doors ; if you would so have it , let us go to the fight as we needs must , wounded though we be . when there , we may keep out of the battle , and set him down upon the steep banks of the scamander . upon this the danaans drove the trojans back , and each one of their chieftains made useless by the hand of achilles son of peleus in single combat ? and aeneas answered , why do you go thus alone about the host , and make it ready for sacrifice to jove and to all the gods . jove , she said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , judge between us and show no favour , lest one of the achaeans can run against him save only achilles . he said this to pay a compliment to the son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and then bear him a long way off , where he washed him in the river , anointed him with ambrosia and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him a better prize even than that which you have now offered ; but i will never cease dealing out death among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they 
