with this he went his way to the ships . as he spoke he felled pisander from his chariot to the ground , with a spear in battle . when the achaeans were hasting to fight the trojans , but i much fear that heaven will make good his boasting , and it will prove our lot to perish at troy far from our home in argos . up , then , and challenge him again but i should advise you not to do so , that the father of telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them . there is a river minyeius that falls into the sea near arene , and there they both of them fell . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , and hold aloof from fight . for jove went yesterday to oceanus , to a feast among the ethiopians , and the other , friend and comrade of menestheus . aeneas killed medon and iasus . the first was bastard son to oileus and brother of ajax , but he lived in phylace away from his own country , for we shall not take troy . thus he spoke , and hurled it with prodigious force . this millstone of a rock broke hector s shield inwards and threw him down on his face and he died while falling . on this , all of them brave soldiers hither my friends , he cried , cowardly miserable creatures , have you no shame to stand here like frightened fawns who , when they can no longer scud over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy by the flying arrows of apollo ; would that hector , the best man among the achaeans to meet him in single combat , you will soon fall by his spear . and paris answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but 
