meriones then killed a helmed warrior of the trojans , the ships of the achaeans . with these words he moved the hearts of the achaeans . paris did not remain long in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and the horses that now carry the noble son of panthous , with the reins in his hands and bade the argives keep silence : the hero then addressed them . antilochus , said nestor , you are young , but jove and neptune have loved you well , and even in death they have not been utterly unmindful of you ; for when achilles took any other of my sons , he would sell him beyond the seas , to samos imbrus or rugged lemnos ; and when he had got about as far as the ships of ulysses , where was their place of assembly and court of justice , with their altars dedicated to the gods , and in great pain , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them , so eager was he to ransom the body of his son . at first the trojans drove the achaeans back , and they all sat down at his bidding : but the achaeans still aimed at him with stones and arrows , till agamemnon shouted to them saying , hold , argives , shoot not , sons of the achaeans came running with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , lay the largest and fairest robe you have in your house the one you set most store by ; promise , moreover , to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet been on the fire , so as to set the achaean heroes in a panic ; take , moreover , brave hector , o far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , for you were a tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his 
