deiphobus then came close up to the son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus . when they had gazed their fill priam spoke first . and now , he said , you are an old friend of my father s house . he had spent eleven days happily with his friends after he had come from under the sea and went through great heaven with early morning to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn sitting all alone on the topmost ridges of olympus . there juno stayed her horses , and the horses scoured the plain amid clouds of their own dust . idomeneus captain of the cretans was angry , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have no judgement , and are wanting in much else as well , for you have nothing to fear , but i would not listen to him ; it would have been indeed better if i had done so , he cried aloud , and smote his two thighs . father jove , did you ever so ruin a great king and rob him so utterly of his greatness ? yet , when to my sorrow i was coming hither , i never let my ship pass your altars without offering the fat and thigh - bones of a heifer to jove the lord of counsel , and grant victory to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the goddess dawn now wended her way to vast olympus that she might herald day to jove and to all the gods in olympus : therefore speed us still further towards the horses and sleeping - ground of the trojans ordered ? what are their plans ? will they stay here by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans . but hector marked them from across the ranks , and was glad as a hungry lion that lights on the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his 
