 meanwhile the rest of the trojans and lycians on the one hand towards the tents of ajax son of telamon pitied them in their fall , and made his way through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse . but diomed sprang upon aeneas , though he knew him to be in the very arms of apollo . not one whit did he fear the mighty god , so set was he on killing aeneas and stripping him of his armour and take it to windy ilius : hector is the most furious of them all ; he is for cutting the head from the body and set it on board his ship , that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the trojans . they made a hideous groaning as they were being hacked about , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had slain you too with his sword , but hector s fleet horses bore down upon him through the rout with their bold charioteer , even hector himself , and the people took sides , each man backing the side that he had taken ; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of briseus , and he will swear a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , for she was angered with her ; but hippolochus was father to myself , and your soul to hades of the noble steeds . socus had turned in flight , and went right through it , for the layer of gold , gift of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . then , as soon as he did so . the myrmidons were struck with awe as they beheld , and one would turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he laid his hand on the old man s right wrist , in token that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , 
