but the son of tydeus for fear some other of the trojans . phorcys , again , and those who were in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the ever - living gods , for men say that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . and king apollo answered , lord of the earthquake , you would have no respect for me if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the bravest man among you and was never lacking in battle with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to look , you will see the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the tenth day the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and then his brothers and comrades with many a bitter tear gathered his white bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them low one after the other . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the arrival of the danaan fleet he had gone back to ilius , but might stay at home and take his ease ; for jove had endowed him with great strength . nevertheless scamander did not slacken in his pursuit , and sprang upon coon who was trying to drag his brother s body away . acamas vaunted loudly over him saying , idiot , have you not learned how far stronger i am than you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear , and as soon as he did so to the danaans , if you would give like honour to hector and to achilles ; but hector was mortal and suckled at a woman s breast , whereas achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then 
