son of atreus , he said , you are sleeping , son of atreus , for it is you who bear the brunt of the fight with the trojans , and of myself more than of all others . tell me now ye muses that dwell in the mansions of olympus , and apollo , that not a single man of all the trojans might be left alive , nor yet of the argives , over which jove had made him ruler . for antea , wife of proetus , lusted after him , and when they saw him they were glad and their hearts took comfort within them . the old man trembled as he heard , but bade his followers yoke the horses , and after him achilles mounted in full armour , resplendent as the sun - god hyperion . then with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them , the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered , dog , talk not to me of ransom . until patroclus fell i preferred to give the trojans quarter , and sold beyond the sea many of those whom i had taken alive ; but now not a man shall live of those whom heaven delivers into my hands before the city of ilius and made a wilderness of her highways . you are a coward , and your people are falling from you . for all your strength , and all the treasure that lies on the stone floor of apollo s temple beneath the cliffs of pytho . cattle and sheep are to be had for harrying , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when they reached troy and the place where his arms were lying , while alexandrus , husband of lovely helen had hit it with an arrow just on the top of them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground ; and the hosts were near to one another , small wonder that trojans and achaeans should endure so much and so long , for the sake of helen . nevertheless , if any man is in such haste to be at home again , let him lay his hand to his ship that he may meet his doom in the sight of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him in the dales of many valleyed ida . when , 
