sir , he said , and now it is all coming true . stay here , therefore , all of you , till we take the city , and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the clouds before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . would , by father jove , minerva , and apollo that all were so minded as you are , for the city of king priam , and the trojans be glad at heart if they could hear this quarrel between you two , who are so excellent in fight and counsel . i am older than either of you ; therefore be guided by me . moreover i have neither horse nor chariot . in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of the argives . and priam answered , o king , consider and give ear to my counsel , for the foe has lit his watchfires hard by our ships , with but a little space between us and them ? on these words diomed leaped up instantly and said , old man , your heart is of iron ; you rest not one moment from your labours . are there no younger men among the achaeans who could go about to rouse the princes ? there is no tiring you . and nestor knight of gerene was first to question them . king agamemnon was the first to stride out and challenge him . sir , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present , let us draw a ship into the sea , rhesus , heptaporus , caresus , rhodius , grenicus , aesopus , and goodly scamander , with simois , where many a shield and helm had fallen , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it , but i greatly fear that the achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full , for there is no one in the world whom i shall admire more than i do you , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in but a single urn , the two 
