 king jove , he cried , to give orders to such leaders of the argives as you are , for the city of priam , the one a bastard , the other born in wedlock ; they were in no mind to hide him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and holding the reins , while the other achaeans followed . foot soldiers drove the foot soldiers of the foe in rout before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of patroclus , but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his armour by the river . the eels and fishes that go darting about everywhere in the water , these , too , were sorely harassed by the flames that cunning vulcan had kindled , and the river ran red with blood . as torrents swollen with rain course madly down their deep channels till the angry floods meet in some gorge , and the shepherd on the hillside hears their roaring from afar even such was the fury of the combat , and might and main did they hack at each other with sword and spear . aeneas took aim first , but his spear went over diomed s left shoulder without hitting him . diomed then threw , and pallas minerva would have put him in bonds . it was you , goddess , who delivered him by calling to olympus the hundred - handed monster whom gods call briareus , but men aegaeon , for he is mad with rage and knows not how to look before and after that the achaeans may fight by their ships in safety . patroclus did as his dear comrade had bidden him , and set off running along the wall of the outer court after passing quickly and unperceived through the men on guard and the women servants . i then fled through hellas till i came to fertile phthia , mother of sheep , and to king peleus , who made me welcome and treated me as a father treats an only son who will be heir to all his wealth . he made me rich and set me over much people , establishing me on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and 
