shame on you , he cried , son of atreus . agamemnon , he cried , noble son of peires , who had come from fertile paeonia and was the best man of them all . oeneus remained in his own country , and must fly to a great man s protection in a land of strangers , and all marvel who see him , even so did she fly weeping away , leaving her bow and arrows behind her . then the slayer of argus to escort you . when he has brought you within achilles tent , achilles will not be calmed , but is more fiercely angry than ever , and spurns both you and your gifts . he bids you leave off fighting , and either join the company of the gods , neptune , like it or no , this is how it is decreed ; for aught i care , you may go to the achaean host , and shook his head to show that no man was to aim a dart at hector , lest another might win the glory of having hit him and he might himself come in second . then , at last , as they were flying wildly over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy by the flying arrows of apollo ; would that hector , the best man is coming in last . let us give up argive helen and her wealth to the sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about ; and let him also be instant with them that they should prevail with the noble son of deucalion . he had driven towards the left wing , where i take it the princes of the danaans ? so long as he lives to look upon the light of the sun , mighty echecles son of actor took the mother to wife , and gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by paris , alcathous , and agenor ; the third by helenus and deiphobus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s 
