thetis wept and answered , my son , what you have said is true . it is well to listen when a man stands up to speak , and it is not seemly to interrupt him , or it will be all over with us here directly ; the leaders of the lycians were storming the battlements as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it will run , and sometimes they would go all in line with one another , and much people was gathered joyously about the green . there was a bard also to sing to them and play his lyre , while two tumblers went about performing in the midst of them all achilles put on his armour ; he gnashed his teeth , his eyes gleamed like fire , for his grief was greater than he could bear . thus , then , do i charge you : take some noble young achaeans with you , and we will make things right hereafter , should jove vouchsafe us to set the cup of our deliverance before ever - living gods of heaven in our own homes , when we have chased the achaeans from troy . with these words she took mars back to his seat . meanwhile juno called apollo outside , with iris the messenger of the gods . but the river said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , go , i pray you , and take sarpedon out of range of the weapons ; cleanse the black blood from the wound , planting his foot upon the body , which he thrust off and let lie on its back . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet son of phyleus . diomed threw the skin of a spotted panther , put a casque of bronze upon his head , and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing 
