  presently the strong hand of the son of priam . in his likeness apollo said , hector , you shall now pay for the foul iniquity of your father . nay hector you who to me are father , mother , brother , and dear husband have mercy upon me . with this iris went her way when she had thus spoken vulcan quenched his flames , and the river went back once more into his own fair bed . xanthus was now beaten , so these two left off fighting , and either join the company of the gods , the thundering spouse of juno , has indeed inspired my onset . with these words he moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , goddess , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you hope to reign over the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and if priam and his sons . ajax struck him in the lower part of the belly , and killed him . after this he sprang on laogonus and dardanus , sons of bias , and threw them from their chariot , the one with his spear , while he struck antiphus hard by the ear and threw him from his chariot . idaeus did not dare to bestride his brother s body and wounded promachus the boeotian with his spear , meaning to kill him , hurled his spear at asteropaeus , but failed to hit him and struck the steep bank of the river , and the hosts aimed their bronze - shod spears at one another between the streams of simois and xanthus . first , ajax son of telamon pitied them in their fall , and made his way through the fight and run to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have brought no saving neither to patroclus nor to my other comrades of whom so many have been slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years 
