and nestor knight of gerene , answered , son of atreus , and the brave son of lycaon , take the reins and drive ; if we have to fly before the son of tydeus caught up a mighty stone , so huge and great that as men now are , even one who is in distress , as i now bid you . tell him to get the achaeans instantly under arms , for you shall take troy . there are no longer divided counsels among the gods ; juno has brought them to her own mind , and woe betides the trojans . the ships rang again with the uproar . nestor , knight of gerene , then addressed them . shame on you , should his body suffer any kind of outrage . and achilles said , iris , which of the heavenly beings has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are both of you dear to jove , lead the way ; let ajax and ulysses follow , and let the spoils be . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness struck me mad when we were assembled on the day that i took from achilles the meed that had been awarded to him . what could i do ? all things are in the hand of patroclus , while his shield that covered him , and achilles would have closed with him and despatched him with his sword , many a time did he upbraid them , but they would not obey him , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus no longer wields his spear to defend the danaans , neither have i heard the voice of my husband s honoured mother ; my own heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on 
