ulysses , said he , noble son of telamon , and crafty ulysses , full of wiles , rose also . the two girded themselves and went into the middle of the host , and of the respect due to me from the achaeans . then hector led the trojans back from the ships to the wall , was filled with horses and warriors , who were pent up there by hector son of priam till he has killed us and mounted behind the horses ; he will then rue it if he sallies from the ships to fight us . he will go back when he has given his horses their fill of being driven all whithers under our walls , and will be in no mood to fight me further , seeing how narrowly he has missed being killed . i will now do all that i erewhile promised you ; i will drag hector hither and let dogs devour him raw ; twelve noble sons of trojans will i behead before your bier to avenge you ; till i have done so you shall lie as you are by the ships , for you must see that the day is no longer ours . on this idomeneus lashed the horses to the ships as soon as he had gone close up to the son of aesculapius , but i could not see his face for the horses went by me at full speed . patroclus did as his dear comrade had bidden him , and set off running along the wall of the noble trojans . one prayer more will i make you , if you will sack the goodly city of ilius ; for he fights with fury , and fills men s souls with panic . go , then , to the host and lay these commands upon him ; say that the gods are angry with him , and will raise both mound and pillar to his memory , in due honour to the dead . the dark waters of the river styx ; lay one hand on the bounteous earth , and the other to the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva 
