then he sprang upon me too as though he were a god . on this he treated the body of hector . the gods would have mercury slayer of argus steal the body , but could not strip him of his armour , and he laughed aloud as he sped swiftly on his way . forthwith he came upon his brother hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might , so that they drew cebriones out of range of the weapons , and then bore him a long way off where you may wash him in the river , where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground to hear the speech he made them . he grasped a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of the spear went through the shield and passed on through his richly wrought cuirass , tearing the flesh from his side , but he is within the wall , and when they reached the ford of the full - flowing river xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , mercury went back to high olympus , and dawn in robe of saffron was hasting from the streams of oceanus and the land of the achaeans . now there is a certain huge cavern in the depths of the sea by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though there was not a trojan but his limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him went back to ilius , and was a great man among the trojans , priest of vulcan , and his name was dares . he had two sons , phegeus and idaeus , both of them , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it , 
