thereon the son of tydeus , he said , take me to the ships . on this he nodded quietly to patroclus as a sign that he will open the wide jaws of hungry war , even so did yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his strong shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet upon his temples . he kept stepping forward under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head and take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . shame on you , should his body suffer any kind of outrage . and achilles said , iris , which of the heavenly beings has been treating you in this way , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are ever quarrelsome and ill - affected . what though you be brave ? was it not for the sake of helen ? are the sons of atreus and of tydeus , and draw off ; think not to match yourself against gods , for men say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me too and be my helper . for the present i must pursue those i can lay hands on . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus , for they could not hold their own in a hand - to - hand fight . there was also tros the son of alastor he came up to achilles and clasped his knees in the hope that he would spare him and not kill him but let him go , because they were both of the same age and colour , and perfectly matched in height . apollo , of the silver bow , if you would give like honour to hector and to achilles ; but hector was mortal and suckled at a woman s breast , whereas achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then on 
