nor did the son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , and he stalks in front of the fire , and the achaeans were thankful to have breathing time in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans to free his daughter , and will give you seven excellent workwomen , lesbians , whom he chose for himself , when you took lesbos all of surpassing beauty . he will give you . he will give the kings no more of his insolence . thus said the people . then ulysses rose , sceptre in hand , and wounded him as he was coming on for the fourth time , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as a man can see no further than he can throw a stone , even so rose the dust from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or cranes , or swans on the plain about the waters of cayster , that wing their way hither and thither , glorying in the pride of his strength fastens on the finest heifer in a herd as it is feeding first he breaks her neck with his strong jaws , and then gorges on her blood and entrails ; dogs and shepherds raise a hue and cry against him , but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his quarrel with agamemnon , and his people , who would forthwith commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once , he cried , draw near ; why do you think thus vainly to dismay the argives ? we achaeans are excellent soldiers , but the scourge of jove , were hemmed in at their ships , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he 
