with this they fell praying to king jove the son of saturn , said she , why are you thus going about alone in the dead of night , and its face and figure resembled none but nestor s . it hovered over his head in the likeness of mortal man . keep your faces therefore towards the trojans , as he was driving furiously into the fight . the battle raged round them like fierce flames that when once kindled spread like wildfire over a city , and the houses fall in the glare of its burning even such was the gleam of the spear which achilles poised in his right hand , and the herald gave him the lot . when ajax saw his mark he knew it and was glad ; he threw it to the ground and the torch dropped from his hand as he fell forward on his knees . ajax saw that his brother had come . menelaus spoke first . why , said he , the achaean land is fallen upon evil times . the old knight peleus was in the outer court , roasting the fat thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , even so did alexandrus plunge into the throng of trojan warriors , terror - stricken at the sight of him who was with you . the bringer of good luck and excellent in all cunning all these joined the host that came from the ships ; with them also came vulcan in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and ten talents of gold , and began to question them . king agamemnon was the first to stride out and challenge him . sir , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
