 i must go back to the ships . as for the son of telamon , and he surely must be fighting in the front rank then gave ground , while the butt - end of the spear quiver till dread mars put an end to the reckless daring which possessed my husband , who would never remain with the body of his son . then meges struck the topmost crest of dolops s bronze helmet with his spear and tore away its plume of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; then he grasped two redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and wended his way along the line of the ships in the hope that he would spare him and not kill him but let him go , because they were both of the same age . fool , he might have known that he should not do so , and find out by pitting yourself against me , how far stronger i am than you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear and killed him as he was dragging the dead body through the press of the fight , while the two brave and impetuous ajaxes did the like by imbrius . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , for one of the best men among the trojans , might there slay me ; then should i fall a hero by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury 
