glaucus , moreover , son of hippolochus , and the son of nestor fly , and the trojans will not stave off destruction for a day . now , therefore , heed what i say , for i come as a messenger from jove , who , though he was a bastard . while tending his sheep he had converse with the nymph , and she conceived twin sons ; these the son of mecisteus now slew , and he stripped the armour from his shoulders . the trojan chieftains , and the cry from both the hosts rose up to heaven and to the brightness of jove s presence . nestor was sitting over his wine , but the cry of battle , and who will not hold aloof much longer . thus spoke polydamas , and his words pleased hector well . he sprang in full armour from his chariot and let the reins fall to the ground . but meleager son of oeneus got huntsmen and hounds from many cities and killed it for it was so monstrous that not a few were needed , and many a watchfire did they kindle . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal to sprinkle over the victims , while chryses lifted up his hands to the starry firmament of heaven , as their drivers turned them back to battle , and i hold it better that i should go , for victory is ever fickle . wait , then , while i put on my armour , or go first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , but jove s august queen was angry and upbraided her bitterly . bold vixen , she cried , o lord of the silver bow , that protectest chryse and holy cilla , and rulest tenedos with thy might . even as thou didst hear me aforetime when i prayed , and didst press hardly upon the achaeans , ever killing the hindmost as they rushed panic - stricken onwards . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his 
