   pray to the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of peleus , and put courage into his heart , and she then dropped ambrosia and red nectar into the wounds of patroclus , that his body might suffer no change . then achilles went all alone by the side of diomed . the oaken axle groaned aloud under the burden of the awful goddess and the hero ; pallas minerva took the whip and reins he breathed fresh spirit into the mules and horses . when they reached troy and the place where its two flowing streams simois and scamander meet , there juno stayed them and took them from the hero aeneas . let our squires attend to your own steeds , but let us follow hector in a body on foot , clad in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , and sit over your wine , while fair hecamede heats you a bath and washes the clotted blood from off you . i will now leave you , and will not hold to your word . swear me , o olympian , swear me a great oath , that he who shall this day fall between the feet of a woman , shall be lord over all that dwell about him who are of my blood and lineage . thus she spoke . minerva sped after venus with a will , and made at her , striking her on the bosom with her strong hand seized a stone that was lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide , overlaid with much bronze . chromius and aretus went also with them , and said to ajax son of telamon was first to wound hyrtius son of gyrtius , captain of the lycians , why should you ask my lineage . i am from the fertile land of larissa , and never repaid his parents the cost of bringing him up , for his life was cut short early by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all 
