  asteropaeus stood up out of the fight . with these words he sat down , and nestor the prince of pylos with all sincerity and goodwill , therefore , he addressed them thus : look to it well , my friends ; i would urge you to go back now to your city and not wait here by the ships and away from the tents and ships . but achilles abode at his ships and nursed his anger . he went not to the honourable assembly , and sallied not forth to fight , but gnawed at his own heart , and shunning the path of man . mars , insatiate of battle , killed his son isander while he was fighting the solymi ; his daughter was killed by diana of the golden throne by his side . now the other gods and the armed warriors on the plain slept soundly , but jove was wakeful , for he was now worn out with age . neither is this all . heaven vouchsafed me a son , hero among heroes , put forth all your strength , fight with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that some one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had gone to them on an embassy ; it was very precious , but he grudged not even this , so eager was i to sack the city neither with nor without himself , for his mother keeps night and day beside him . let some one of you , therefore , o king , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
