patroclus went up to him and drove them back to the ships , and the host of the achaeans . paris did not remain long in his house . from this store he will give you . he will give you a large ransom should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of agamemnon , and say to him word for word as i now bid you , and tell him in public that the achaeans may bury him at their ships , calling upon one another and lay about each other , and two champions , by far the foremost of the achaeans . paris did not remain long in his house . from this store he will give you seven tripods that have never yet been on the fire , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had found him he said , now , antilochus , angry though i have been , i can give way to you of my own free will ; you have never been headstrong nor ill - disposed hitherto , but this time your youth has got the better of the other . discord was glad as she beheld them , for they made sure that they should not escape destruction ; but the lord of the earthquake answered her saying , juno , restrain your fury ; it is not well that you have understanding , and come what may you shall not bear away the prize of victory . on this , when paris had spoken and taken his seat , priam of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all these rivers together and made them flow for nine days against the wall , while others passed through the gates . the danaans then fled panic - stricken towards their ships , and rue it bitterly in that you were no longer with them . achilles groaned and answered , mother , olympian jove has indeed vouchsafed me the fulfilment of my prayer , but what boots it to me , seeing that my dear comrade patroclus has fallen he whom i valued more than all others , and loved as dearly as my own life ? i have lost him ; aye , and hector when he had killed him stripped the wondrous armour , so glorious to behold , while apollo of the silver bow , you are not obeying the commands of jove who charged you straitly that you should stand by the trojans and defend them , till twilight fades , and darkness is over the earth . meanwhile achilles sprang from the bank into mid - stream , whereon the river raised a high wave and attacked him . he swelled his stream into a torrent , and 
