after a while he reached many - fountained ida , and i have not killed him . with this he led the way as he spoke and hurled it , nor did he fail to hit the broad orb of ox - hide ; the two men being now girt went into the middle of the belly so that he died ; he had come from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , before achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus . it will be worth much money to him . he bade his comrade automedon bring the breastplate from his tent , and he did so . the dead hero had had house - dogs ; two of them did achilles slay and threw upon the pyre ; he also put twelve brave sons of noble trojans to the sword and laid them with the rest , for he was not of mortal mould . daring , head - strong , evildoer who recked not of his sin in shooting the gods that dwell in heaven ? let us then snatch him from death s sight when his hour is come , so surely as i can find him armour that shall amaze the eyes of all who behold it . when he had thus spoken they charged full weight upon the danaans with their spears held out before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his son . then he chased all the trojans from the ships , come back again . though juno s thundering husband should put triumph within your reach , for he is quick to see and understand . son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with a spear on the chest where it was exposed near the rim of his shield which reached his feet , and served to keep the javelins off him . he tripped against this and fell face upward , his helmet ringing loudly about his head as he ran swiftly on . the achaeans all shouted applause as they saw him straining his utmost , and cheered him as he shot past them ; but when they had crossed their whole plain , minerva darted down by night from olympus and bade us set ourselves in array ; and she found willing soldiers in pylos , for the men meant fighting . neleus would not let me arm , and hid my horses , for he said that as yet i could know nothing about war ; nevertheless minerva so ordered the fight that 
