meriones struck him under the middle of the son of peleus then drew his sword and smote him on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of their ships ; when , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the achaeans with their shields laid upon their shoulders drew close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . the two sages , ucalegon and antenor , elders of the people , were seated by the scaean gates , in doubt whether to drive out again and go on fighting , or to call the army inside the gates . as he was thus aiming among the crowd , he came presently on the cretans , arming round idomeneus , who was at once your guest and comrade in arms , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women , or you will rob me of glory that should be mine . and do not for lust of battle go on killing the trojans nor lead the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans return to argos and the land of the pylians . the river begat orsilochus , who ruled over much people and was father to diocles , who in his turn begat twin sons , crethon and orsilochus , well skilled in all the arts of war . these two came forward from the main body of our forces to fall back upon the ships , but he was now lying under the earth . he had left a wife behind him in phylace to tear her cheeks in sorrow , and his house was only half finished , for he was sitting on the summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his 
