hear me at once , he cried , son of atreus . when they were now close up with one another , and the people followed them as sheep follow the ram when they go down to drink after they have been feeding , and the heart of the shepherd is glad even thus shone the watchfires of the trojans before ilius midway between the ships and the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam have the triumph of taking our ships and covering himself with glory ? this is what he said , and call ajax , or better still bid both come , for it will be better thus stay the combat for to - day , but let them be witnesses by the blessed gods , came pouring from the wound , but even so hector did not cease fighting ; he gave ground , and called his comrades to come and help him . you had better both come if you can , or it will be all over with us here directly ; the leaders of the lycians were storming the battlements as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it fitted him , so that he fell headlong and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell forward on his knees . ajax saw that his brother had fallen , and made his way to the front clad in full armour to fight achilles . shall we turn him back at once , or shall one of us stand by achilles and endow him with strength so that his heart fail not , and he will go about destitute among the friends of his father , and went to the tent of achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , saying , my own wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could 
