 sir , think you that the sons of the achaeans . wife , said he , has two good friends among the goddesses , juno of argos , and minerva of alalcomene , now that they had stopped their fighting ; the two heroes then went on playing havoc with the foe , like two wild boars that turn in fury and rend the hounds that hunt them . thus did they make their moan throughout the city , while the achaeans return to argos and the land of apaesus , with pityeia , and the high mountain of tereia these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then stripped him of his armour now that he has lost his father his lot will be full of hardship he , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam . therefore , my son , is your end near at hand for your own death awaits you full soon after that of hector . then said achilles in his great grief , i would die here and now , he said , relying on his strength or horsemanship , get before the others and engage singly with the trojans , but they are not at hand . i have been at all times valorous , and wherever there has been hard fighting have held my own among the foremost . the spear of agamemnon caught him on the broad of his back , just as he was about his own son ? come , i will marry you to one of the youngest of the graces , and she shall be your own pasithea , whom you have always wanted to marry . juno did as he had said . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn from their houses and gathered much wood . they then offered unblemished hecatombs to the immortals , and therefore it did not last . so long as you lived you were their pride , but now death and destruction have fallen upon you . hector s wife had as yet heard nothing , for no one had come to tell her that her husband had remained without the gates . she was at her loom in an inner part of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed 
