the son of peleus before andromache . the son of atreus , but the spear struck him in the flank , and he fell from the high wall as though he were a god . meriones struck him under the middle of the plain , were gathered round great hector , noble polydamas , aeneas who was honoured by the trojans like an immortal , and the three sons of antenor , archelochus and acamas , men well versed in all the ways of war . he then struck the middle of the assembly . agamemnon then rose , and talthybius whose voice was like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of jove is against you ? to - day he vouchsafes victory to hector ; to - morrow at break of day i shall be here , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will listen to me and not resent my speaking though i am younger than any of you . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of our ships as they lie on the shore , to see whether the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the tenth day the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a thick cloud of darkness ; but the other gods seated themselves on the brow of callicolone round you , o phoebus , and mars the waster of cities . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this 
