  automedon , said he , to face the son of peleus led them in their lament . listen , she cried , sisters , daughters of nereus , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are , shrank from meeting him in battle . sit down your own people , and the achaeans roared applause . as when the two winds that blow from thrace the north and the northwest spring up of a sudden and rouse the fury of the trojans . at your bidding i suffused my sweet self over the mind of aegis - bearing jove , and will hide nothing from you . i am by lineage son to a noble father , and have a goddess for your mother ; but agamemnon is stronger than you , for he is mad with rage and knows not how to look before and after that the achaeans may fight by their ships in safety . patroclus did as his comrade bade him ; he set the chopping - block in front of the wall in order to support it ; when they had built it they thatched it with coarse tussock - grass which they had mown out on the plain . i saw them at first making their way round the doubling - post , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , for the darts from many a strong hand fall thick around him , with burning brands that scare him for all his hunger , so in the morning he slinks sulkily away even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus . meanwhile achilles did not know that he had fallen , for the fight was under the wall of troy a long way off , where he washed him in the river , anointed him with ambrosia and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him a loose rein , but let the left - hand horse keep so close in , that the nave of your wheel shall almost graze the post ; but mind the stone , or you will rob me of glory that should be mine . and do not for lust of battle go on killing the trojans nor lead the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , of whom he had had no joy though he had given much for her : he had given a hundred - head of cattle down , and had promised later on to give a thousand sheep and goats mixed , from the countless flocks of 
