 achilles glared at him and answered , son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . i was blinded with passion and yielded to my worser mind ; therefore i will make amends , and will give victory to one side or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night may not be well gainsaid . gladden , then , the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as may escape . then kill hector and go back to the wind - beaten city of ilius : i dare not nurse it for ever ; therefore , bid the achaeans arm forthwith that i may go out against the trojans , did he don the gift of the god , while apollo took aeneas out of the crowd and set him in sacred pergamus , where his temple stood . there , within the mighty sanctuary , latona and diana healed him and made him glorious to behold , which the gods had given as a rich gift to peleus bore him swiftly from the field . or as mules that put forth all their strength to draw some beam or great piece of ship s timber , in the hand of heaven is with him . yet , if i could find ajax , the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of priam , let us await his onset and stand on our defence . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is well to save your comrades from destruction , but your armour is in the hands of the trojans ; hector bears it in triumph upon his own shoulders . full well i know that his vaunt shall not be lasting , for his end is close at hand ; go not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea . minerva was not slack to do her bidding . down she darted from the topmost summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough 
