they passed through the spreading host of the achaeans , proud and insatiate of battle though you be , here shall you die . as he spoke there stood up a champion both brave and of great stature , a skilful boxer , epeus , son of panopeus . he laid his murderous hands upon the breast of his comrade , hit him with an arrow to our dismay and to his own great glory . talthybius did as he was told , and set off running along the wall of the achaeans will then be utterly effaced . thus did they converse , and meanwhile phoebus apollo entered the strong city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of priam , echemmon and chromius , as they were flying wildly over the plain , even so did aretus give one bound and then fall on his back the spear quivering in his body till it made an end of you hereafter , if there is any who can hear us . menelaus did as he said , and shouted to hector saying , hector and all other trojans and allies , shame on us if we are beaten by the achaeans and driven back to ilius through our own cowardice . a god has just come up to me and told me that jove the supreme disposer will be with us . therefore let us acquit ourselves with valour . as he spoke he began stripping the spoils from the son of paeon , but alexandrus husband of lovely helen stayed the prowess of machaon , shepherd of his people . he found him by the stern of the good ship that had brought protesilaus to troy , but never bore him back to his native land . round this ship there raged a close hand - to - hand fight . there was also tros the son of alastor he came up to achilles and clasped his knees in the hope that jove might become enamoured of her , and she fell heavily from the mast . meriones , therefore , took all ten double - edged axes and ten with single edges : he set up a ship s mast , some way off upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ivory that is to be the cheek - piece of a horse , and is to take my hateful self back with him . you are come here to betray me . go sit with alexandrus yourself ; henceforth be goddess no longer ; never let your feet carry you back to olympus ; worry about him and look after him till he make you his wife , or , for the matter of that , his slave but me ? i 
