at one moment the chariots seemed to touch the ground , and all the other gods gave ear . hear me , he cried , rush on the foe , and many were struck clean through their shields ; the wall and battlements were everywhere deluged with the blood alike of trojans and achaeans . meanwhile the armed band that was about patroclus marched on till they sprang high in hope upon the trojans . he covered his broad back with the skin of a grey wolf , while on his head he set a cap of ferret skin . then he took a pointed javelin , and left the other chieftains behind them . pallas minerva sent them a heron by the wayside upon their right hands , and when they had done praying to the daughter of great jove . now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of patroclus , while his shield that covered him from head to foot , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , flung the skin of a panther , his bow , and took his place in the front ranks . they killed pylaemenes peer of mars , leader of the aetolians , a man who could throw a good throw , and who was staunch also in close fight , while few could surpass him in debate when opinions were divided . he then with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : king agamemnon , the achaeans are for making you a by - word , for the achaeans will set battle in array ; it is not well that you , the ruler of the achaeans , they will retire within their walls . if he could learn all this and come back safely here , his fame would be high as heaven in the mouths of all men , and he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
