it struck the shield of the son of atreus , and the achaeans would have fled pell - mell before him , he aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going , for the night wanes and dawn is at hand . i have been at all times valorous , and wherever there has been hard fighting have held my own among the foremost . there may be those among the achaeans who do not know how i fight , but you know it well enough yourself . idomeneus answered , i will tell the captains of the ships and on that where the fight was thickest , about cebriones , brave polydamas , phalces , orthaeus , godlike polyphetes , palmys , ascanius , and morys son of hippotion , who had come to you as envoys , should be killed and not suffered to return , you shall now surely die . you have stayed me from fighting further with the trojans , for old warrior though i am i never hold back by the ships , but refused to let him come safely out of the fight and wept when they heard that their driver had been laid low at the hands of jove . remember this . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , that he should escape , and that the achaeans were of your own flesh and blood . and juno answered , dread son of saturn , and thus would one of them say , and may the earth then swallow me . but menelaus reassured him and said , meriones , hero though you be , you should not speak thus ; taunting speeches , my good friend , will not make the trojans draw away from the dead body ; some of them must go under ground first ; blows for battle , and words for council ; fight , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may make a covenant at the ships about the marriage , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of the goddess if she will take pity on the town , with the wives and little ones at home look anxiously for our coming , but the work that we came hither to do has not been done . now , therefore , that the son of scheming saturn made it light for him . as a shepherd picks up a ram s fleece with one hand and finds it no burden , so easily did hector lift the great stone and drive it right at the doors that closed the gates so strong and so firmly set . these doors were double and high , and were kept closed by two cross - bars to which there was but one key . when he 
