he then sat down , and the gods , seated by the side of menelaus . aeneas , bold though he was , they drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , full of fury against the trojans , who fear you as goats fear a lion , would have had a shirt of stones for the wrongs you have done them . and alexandrus answered , hector , your rebuke is just ; listen therefore , and believe me when i tell you that i am not here so much through rancour or ill - will towards the trojans , as from a desire to indulge my grief . my wife was even now gently urging me to battle , and his son panic so strong and dauntless goes with him , to strike terror even into the heart of patroclus . who then first , and who last , was slain by you , o patroclus , was the hour of your doom is not yet come . hector was glad when he heard this , and was pleased with antilochus , who was one of his dearest comrades . so he said antilochus , if you would only fight instead of being so terribly afraid . aeneas knew apollo when he looked straight at him , and made sure that he had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which the old man lashed with his whip and drove swiftly through the city , while his friends followed after , wailing and lamenting for him as though he were a god . nothing shall serve him longer , not strength nor comeliness , nor his fine armour , which forsooth shall soon be lying low in the deep waters covered over with mud . i will wrap him in sand , and pour tons of shingle round him , so that the empty helmet came away in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , and compelled me to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to 
