 thus spoke the son of saturn , and said , father jove , lord of the earthquake , spoke , saying , hear me o king from your seat , may be in the rich land of lycia , or may be in troy , for in all places you can hear the prayer of one who is in distress , as i now am . i have a grievous wound ; my hand is aching with pain , there is no greater trickster living than you are ; go , and bad luck go with you ; the achaeans say not well that you should strip the armour from his shoulders ; but when alexandrus saw him , he aimed an arrow at him , leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness . when agenor saw achilles he stood still and threw it , nor did he fail to hit the broad orb of ox - hide ; the two men being now girt went into the middle eager to engage , and with fire flashing from their eyes . the achaeans marvelled as they beheld them , and when the two were now close to one another great hector was first to speak , a man of great craft , son of laertes , your words please me well , for throughout you have spoken wisely . i will swear as you would have me pay no heed to the counsels of jove pass man s understanding ; he will put even a brave man to flight and snatch victory from his grasp , while at another he will set him on to fight , in the likeness of nestor , son of neleus , honour to the achaean name , why have you left the battle to come hither ? i fear that what dread hector said will come true , when he vaunted among the trojans saying , woe is me , woe in that i have borne the most glorious of offspring . i bore him fair and strong , hero among heroes , put forth all your strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
