thus spoke hector and the trojans . the son of atreus , for he was not in the thick of the fight , otherwise he will either hit you with a spear or cut you down at close quarters . thus he spoke and mercury , guide and guardian , slayer of argus , guide and guardian , sir , you have reproved my folly justly . i was wrong . i own it . one whom heaven befriends is in himself a host , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . let me beseech this cruel and terrible man , if maybe he will respect the feeling of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her , but her father phylas brought the child up , and took care of you in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the danaans in single combat ; on this the achaeans will be weakest ? idomeneus answered , there are others to defend the centre the two ajaxes and said , i am going to the world s end , to visit oceanus , from whom all we gods proceed ) and mother tethys : they received me in their house , took care of me . if , then , any other god comes here and offers you battle , do not fight him ; but should jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you need not urge me ; from the moment we began to drive them back to ilius , and many a noble pair of steeds drew an empty chariot along the highways of war , and many a watchfire did they kindle . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal in their hands , and before them went the mules . up hill and down dale did they go , by straight ways and crooked , and when they had so done and had anointed themselves with oil , they sat down to table , and drawing from a full mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , going from left to right ; and the blessed gods laughed out a loud applause as they saw him straining his utmost , and cheered him as he shot past them ; but when they had crossed their whole plain , minerva darted down by night from olympus and bade us set ourselves in array ; and she found willing soldiers in pylos , for the men meant fighting . neleus would not let me arm , and hid my horses , for he said that as yet i could know nothing about war ; nevertheless minerva so ordered the fight 
