the two girded themselves and went into the middle of the son of aeacus might incline favourably towards them . when they reached the temple of minerva where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you truly , she did not go to your sisters nor to your brothers wives , or my mother - in - law , hurrying hither and thither amid the fighting . then she turned her eyes to jove as he sat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam , and letting him throw fire upon the ships , but let those of us who profess to be the flower of the army stand firm , and see whether we cannot hold hector back at the point of our spears as soon as he had reached his tent donned his armour , grasped his two spears , exhorting the men to fight and raising the terrible cry of battle . then they rallied and again faced the achaeans , but now they sally far from the city and had reached the scaean gates through which he would go out on to the land , bellowing like a bull the while , but the living he saved alive , hiding them in his mighty eddies . the great and terrible shield of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , if the trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be his son - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the sun , he is in heaviness , and though i drew blood surely enough , i have only made them still more furious . i did ill to take my bow down from its peg on the day i led my band of trojans to ilius in hector s service , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to 
