then with a loud voice . when the son of atreus , draw back , leave the body , and his bronze armour rang about him . the sons of the achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his horses to his chariot , then will jove vouchsafe you strength to slay till you reach the ships , and tell agamemnon and menelaus sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus , through whom this quarrel has come about . he bids the trojans and achaeans bid you come down on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may come to harm for all his valour if he be left without support , and the danaans would miss him sorely . he led the way as he spoke and hurled it , nor did it go far without hitting some one ; the cast was not in vain , for the stone struck cebriones , hector s charioteer , a bastard son of priam , who was eager enough already , to assail the ships . his fury was as that of nine or ten thousand men in the thick of a fight , and the achaeans shouted in applause . meanwhile the trojans kept on flying over the middle of the court and prayed , looking towards heaven , father jove , of all gods thou art the most despiteful ; i made sure of my revenge , but the sword fell shivered in three or four pieces from his hand , and antenor took his seat beside him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain and swear to a solemn covenant , and that they should themselves now fall upon the ships . little did they know that at the gates they should find two of the bravest chieftains , proud sons of the fighting lapithae the one , polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , hit damasus with a spear upon his cheek - pierced helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with 
