sthenelus sprang from his chariot clad in his suit of armour , and went about among the host , that we may advise together whether to fall now upon the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off me in the river and in the evening return to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows be , for jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through against the trojans . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and the slayer may yet be slain . thus spoke hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot , seized the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , and would speed after me till he had caught me i should stand no chance against him , for he was full of bitterness and fury . then he committed all to the resistless and devouring might of the fire ; he groaned aloud and called on his dead comrade by name . fare well , he cried , with the face of a dog and the heart of diomed was glad . he planted his heel upon the body and drew out his spear , but the darts pressed so heavily upon him that he could feel their warm breath on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hands . eurypylus , said he in his dismay , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much , for 
