the bloody hand fell to the ground , placed the blood - stained armour from the body of pisander , and handed it round after giving every man his drink - offering and had thus prayed , achilles went inside his tent and put back the cup into his chest . then he again came out , for he still thought to cover himself with glory . menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang furiously upon him , with a cry as of death and with his keen blade drawn , and aeneas seized a great stone , moreover , beat on many a shield as they fought around his body , but there he lay in the whirling clouds of dust , all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as you lived you were their pride , but now death and destruction have fallen upon you . hector s wife and his mother were the first to mourn him : they flew towards the waggon and laid their hands upon his head , and took his spear in his brawny hand . then he went in chase of the paeonians , and it is these that hinder me from being able to sack the rich city of ilius . the trojans and dardanians will not believe him , nor yet the wives of the mighty warriors whom you have laid low . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , and has sent a holy hecatomb to chryse . thus we may perhaps appease him . with these words of reasonable counsel he persuaded his brother , whereon his squires gladly stripped the armour from my shoulders ; had twenty such men as you are . my good friends , matters will soon become even worse through this slackness ; think , each one of you , of his own honour and credit , for the hazard of the fight is extreme . great hector is now fighting at our ships ; he has broken through the gates and wall of the achaeans stood firm ; but when the ships of the argives . and priam answered , it is indeed as you say , or whether i shall myself slay him and carry off his bloodstained spoils . to - morrow let him show his mettle , abide my spear if he dare . i ween that at break of day i shall be here , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice 
