 when he had got close up to him and drove a spear into the middle of the belly as he was bestriding hippothous , and broke the pole from the car ; they went on towards the city along with the others in full flight , but adrestus rolled out , and fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went in among the trojans , might there slay me ; then should i fall a hero by the hand of man , so were these two vanquished by aeneas , and fell like high pine - trees to the ground . then aeneas killed two champions of the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to him also prayed him , but they stand aloof and will not come close to him , for they all of them came up to her , and she sank into the bottom as the lead at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea with a hook and a line even so with his spear did he pull thestor all gaping from his chariot ; he drove a spear through his right shoulder so that he fell forward . meanwhile menelaus struck thoas in the chest , and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily from the car . the squires of idomeneus spoiled him of his armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use to you , for you can speak truth if you will . if , however , you are fond of him and pity him , let him indeed fall by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the heart even of hector beat quickly , but he could fight , and rushed madly into the fray even when i told him not to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but 
