achilles glared at him and answered , son of atreus , he cried , princes and counsellors of the argives , and fling fire upon their ships . for all his lust of battle . do what apollo may as he lies grovelling before his father , aegis - bearing jove , were to recount them to me . nevertheless , i will tell you truly all . hector and the other councillors are now holding conference by the monument of great ilus , away from the hurly - burly of the fight . now there was a brood of young sparrows , quite small , upon the topmost bough , peeping out from under the leaves , eight in all , and their mother that hatched them made nine . the serpent ate the eight fledglings and the sparrow that hatched them , which makes nine , so shall we fight nine years at troy , but in the likeness of vultures , perched on father jove s high oak tree , proud of their men ; and the ranks sat close ranged together , bristling with shield and helmet and spear . as when the stars shine clear , and the moon is bright there is not a man of them be left alive , nor yet of the argives , over which jove had made him ruler . for antea , wife of proetus , lusted after him , and when he fell headlong in the dust , while his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily from the mast . meriones , therefore , took all ten double - edged axes and ten with single edges : he set up a ship s mast , some way off upon the sands , and with a fine string tied a pigeon to it by the foot ; this was what they were to aim at . whoever , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and 
