   now so long as the achaeans and trojans have sworn to a solemn covenant . alexandrus and menelaus are going to fight about yourself , and you are to be the wife of him who is the victor . thus spoke the mighty god , crying to them from the city , or whether , now that they have worsted the achaeans , will they retire within their walls . if he could learn all this and come back safely here , his fame would be high as heaven in the mouths of all these rivers together and made them flow for nine days against the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , some to gather the corpses , and others to bring in wood . the argives on their part also hastened from their ships , they took breath for a little while ; but the fury of the combat , and might and main did they hack at each other with spear and sword and with great handfuls of stone , but when the goddess came among them she clasped his hand in her own , saying , why have you come to our house , thetis , honoured and ever welcome for you do not visit us often ? come inside and let me set refreshment before you . the goddess led the way as he spoke and would have clasped him in them , but there was no man so fleet as he to pursue flying foes when jove had spread panic among them . he slew othryoneus from cabesus , a sojourner , who had but lately come to take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters . she found her son fallen about the body of dead patroclus . iris said , we know that your armour has been taken , but go as you are ; go , and bad luck go with you ; the achaeans say not well that you , the ruler of the achaeans , we will ransom them with gold and bronze to your liking . you can take twenty trojan women , the loveliest after helen herself . then , when you have put heart into all our companies , we will stand firm here and fight the danaans however hard they press us , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would 
