 great ajax son of telamon , captain of the phoceans , and ajax killed laodamas captain of foot soldiers and son to antenor . he put courage into the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as may escape . then kill hector and go back to the wind - beaten city of ilius : i dare not with my own eyes witness this fight between my son and menelaus , for jove and the other gods ordained it ) migrated to argos . he married into the family of adrastus , and his house was only half finished , for he was overcome by the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he was doomed . therefore he left the raised deck at the stern , and stepped back on to the ground also . the two then rushed at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in the press of the fight , and ran full speed after his men who were taking the armour of achilles to troy , but never bore him back to his native land . round this ship there raged a close hand - to - hand encounter - the trojans from their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus , for he longed to lay him low , but the immortal steeds which the gods had given as a rich gift to peleus bore him swiftly from the field . i can now see for myself that he is machaon , shepherd of his people . i must go home to see my household , my wife and my little son , for i know that i shall offend one who rules the argives with might , to whom all the achaeans are lamenting . with this she left them , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . paris did not remain long in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and the horses came flying in at their utmost speed . diomed stayed them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of jove 
