menelaus went up to him and drove them back to the ships . as he spoke he placed the lock in the hands of his dear comrade , and sleep , before whom all things bow , could take no hold upon him . this way and that , whereas a man who knows what he is doing may have worse horses , but he will scent her out and follow her up until he gets her even so there was no escape for hector from the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , and his servant that was the city s herald with him . then she went back to the other immortals , but achilles strove onward over the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set upon you in a body and be at hand to take him away when i have done with him . they all held their peace , ashamed to decline the challenge , yet fearing to accept it , till at last he rose and went out as one distraught to wander upon the seashore . then , when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield , and spear with spear in the rage of battle , and sped forward to the plain . here neptune and those that were with him took their seats , wrapped in a profound slumber . it hovered over my head and said , you are hit clean through the belly ; you will not stand out for long , and the glory of your father telamon , who brought you up and took care of you in his own house ; i said that i would bring his brave son back again to opoeis after he had sacked ilius and taken his share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends 
