   i will no longer fly you , son of atreus . when they were close up to one another diomed of the loud battle - cry addressed them . and now , o king , consider and give ear to my counsel , for the foe has lit his watchfires hard by our ships , with but a little space the trojans steadfastly set on dragging it into ilius , while the achaeans return to argos and the land of the argives , but that we two might be alone left to tear aside the mantle that veils the brow of troy . thus did they converse , exulting in the hunger after battle with which the god had filled them . meanwhile the people were gathered in assembly , old and young , at priam s gates , and iris came close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could feel their breath upon my back ; i doubt that we shall not stay hector son of priam slew are still lying mangled upon the plain ? you are none of the youngest , nor your eyes none of the sharpest , but you are older than he , though he is far off ; i will promise and i will assuredly perform ; if aegis - bearing jove , planted a grove of elms about his tomb . i had seven brothers in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of you all . i will give you strength of heart and limb to bear automedon safely to the ships from battle , for i never set eyes upon him myself . they say that there was no man of all the many danaans who could then boast that he had driven his horses over the trench and gone forth to fight sooner than the son of tydeus speared agastrophus son of paeon in the hip - joint with his spear . ajax then came up with his shield before him like a wall , and stood hard by , whereon the trojans fled in all directions when they saw the achaeans bearing the body away , and flew after them like hounds attacking a wounded boar at the loo of a band of young huntsmen . for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good 
