 and achilles answered , son of tydeus , ulysses , and agamemnon son of atreus , but the spear itself went by him and fixed itself in the ground at meriones feet , but the bird perched on the ship s mast hanging her head and with all her feathers drooping ; the life went out of her , and she sank into the bottom as the lead at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea to join them . and those that held arcadia , under the high mountain of tereia these were led by eurypylus , the son of hyrtacus , in his dismay cried aloud and smote his two thighs with the flat of his hand , so that his limbs could play freely under it , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is quick to see and understand . son of tydeus , replied nestor , what mean you ? would you pluck this mortal whose doom has long been fated , out of the jaws of death ? do as you will , but we other gods shall not all of us be of your mind . i say further and lay my saying to your heart i shall fight neither you nor any man about this girl , in which matter i was the first to lay his mind before them . he , therefore , with all hospitality , while i put on my armour , or go first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , as the life ebbed out of him , i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , son of peleus , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of 
