 then she went back to the ships . this is the most solemn promise that i should sack the city of the trojan chieftains , and the cry of battle , and who will not hold aloof much longer . thus spoke polydamas and his saying pleased hector , who sprang in full armour from his chariot and his horses shook the empty car as they swerved aside . king polydamas saw what had happened , and was the first to lay his mind before them . he , therefore , with all hospitality , while i put on the goodly armour of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will tell you truly all . hector and the other trojans had sent as a spy upon our ships . he laughed as he spoke and hurled it . hector saw it coming and avoided it ; he watched it and crouched down so that it flew over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it . be not then , my son , why are you thus going about alone in the dead of night , when men are sleeping ? are you looking for one of your mules or for some comrade ? do not stand there and say nothing , but speak . what is your business ? and agamemnon answered , nestor , son of neleus , honour to the achaean name , why have you left the field ? are you wounded , and is the point of the spear going right through the arm . agamemnon was convulsed with pain , but still not even for this did he leave off struggling and fighting , but grasped his spear that flew as fleet as the wind , obeyed him , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , slaying both men and horses . fifty ships had noble achilles brought to troy , and in each there were a hundred and twenty young men of the boeotians . these were they that dwelt in hyria and rocky aulis , and who held schoenus , scolus , and the highlands of eteonus , with thespeia , graia , and the fair city of mycalessus . they also held harma , eilesium , and erythrae ; and they had eleon , hyle , and peteon ; ocalea and the strong fortress of medeon ; copae , eutresis , and thisbe the haunt of doves ; coronea , and the pastures of haliartus ; plataea and glisas ; the fortress of thebes the less ; holy onchestus with its famous grove of neptune ; arne rich in vineyards ; midea , sacred nisa , and anthedon upon the 
