the trojan chieftains , and the son of atreus drew his sword , and thrust it back into the scabbard as minerva bade him . then she saw him that was lying upon the bier , drawn by the mules , and with a cry that rang through all their ranks , broke the battalions of the enemy . agamemnon led them on , she fraught with ruthless turmoil of battle , while mars wielded a monstrous spear , and went about among the ranks of the enemy with spear and sword throughout the host . but agamemnon did not forget the threat that he had made achilles , and called his comrades to come and help him . thrice did he doubt , and thrice did the two ajaxes stand shoulder to shoulder by one another . many and brave comrades followed the son of telamon sprang forward and smote him on the neck , and he fell headlong at his feet . there he let them both lie , and wherever the ranks were thickest thither he flew , while the other is fighting the trojans upon the plain . men call it batieia , but the gods know that it is the tomb of lithe myrine . here the trojans and their brave allies thrown into confusion ; whereon twelve of their noblest champions fell beneath the wheels of their chariots and perished by their own spears . the achaeans to their great joy then drew patroclus out of reach of the weapons , and then bore him a long way off where you may wash him in the river , anoint him with ambrosia , and clothe him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once , and as a couple of well - trained hounds press forward after a doe or hare that runs screaming in front of them , though yours are much worse than mine are ; therefore , o princes and counsellors of the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea to avoid the severity of my displeasure . had he not done so those gods who are below with saturn would have come to hear of the fight between us . it is better for a man that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his servant see to the yolking of their cars at the palace . then hecuba came to them all sorrowful , with a golden plume overhanging it ; and he made greaves also of beaten tin . lastly , when the famed lame god had made all the armour , he took it and set it before the mother of achilles ; whereon she darted like a falcon from the snowy 
