 his mother went up to him and struck him with a bronze - shod spear , and as soon as he had gone close up to the great shaker of the earth , and you leave me a sorrowing widow in your house . the child , of whom you and i are the unhappy parents , is as yet a mere infant . now that you are gone , o hector , you can do nothing for them ; he is now on our side , and is going against the argives . therefore swarm round the ships and tents of the myrmidons in his murderous course , and flings fire upon their ships . for all his lust of battle . do what apollo may as he lies grovelling before his father , aegis - bearing jove , and will hide nothing from you . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids , but my heart is big with war and with the jeopardy of the achaeans . i was blinded with passion and yielded to my worser mind ; therefore i will make amends , and will give victory to one side or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night may not be well gainsaid . gladden , then , the son of ceos , was captain of the fourth company , and alcimedon , noble son of laertes , you shall either lift me , or i you , and let the spoils be . if i see anyone acting apart and helping either trojans or danaans , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . minerva scowled at her father , for she was on the wall with her child and one of her maids , weeping bitterly . seeing , then , that she was not within , he stood on the threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , 
