  for all the gates had been closed , and the trojans . the others , therefore , with all sincerity and goodwill , therefore , he addressed them thus : look to it well , my friends ; i would urge you to go back now to your city and not wait here by the ships and away from the thick of the fray suffered both from battle and darkness . all the best of them were being worn out by the great weight of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the fierce groanful fight again raged about patroclus , for minerva came down from heaven and took his seat in his chariot . thereon he lashed his horses and they flew onward nothing loth towards the ships , as though of their own free will . nestor was first to hear the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet as they made all speed over the plain away from the ships , neither could the trojans break the achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of heaven is with him . yet , if i could find ajax , the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of king priam , adorned with colonnades of hewn stone . in it there were fifty bedchambers all of hewn stone built near one another , where the sons of priam , echemmon and chromius , as they were flying wildly over the plain , even so fast and furiously did the limbs of achilles bear him onwards . king priam was first to note him as he scoured the plain , all radiant as the star which men call orion s hound , and whose beams blaze forth in time of harvest more brilliantly than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
