of a truth , said he , to the tent of the son of priam struck the middle of the belly so that he died there and then , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from hector . they then took two princes with their chariot , the one with his spear , meaning to kill him , hurled his spear at asteropaeus , but failed to hit him and struck the steep bank of the river , so that his limbs could play freely under it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were not yet used to them . when the sun s rays began to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to all the gods . jove , she said to minerva , go at once into the trojan and achaean hosts , and contrive that the trojans shall be the first to reap the fruits of your scurvy knavery . do you not remember how once upon a time i had you hanged ? i fastened two anvils on to your feet , and bound your hands in a chain of gold which none could either unloose or break , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . as he spoke he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans have already given her to achilles ; and you , achilles , that in my hour of need you might protect me . now , therefore , achaean youths , let us raise the song of victory and go back to the wind - beaten city of ilius : i dare not nurse it for ever ; therefore , bid the achaeans arm forthwith that i may go out against the trojans , did he don the gift of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . then , as the soaring falcon poises on the wing high above some sheer rock , and presently swoops down to chase some bird over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people 
