 minerva was pleased at his having named herself before any of the other gods . with these words he put life and soul into them all . and now let us be going , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet been on the fire , and the earth groaned under the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet as they rushed towards each other , and neither side would give way . many a pointed spear fell to ground and many a winged arrow sped from its bow - string about the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of iphidamas . thus did the two go about shouting and cheering the achaeans on . as the flakes that fall thick upon a winter s day , when jove is minded to help the trojans , and cut off some straggler , or bring us news of what the enemy mean to do whether they will stay here by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of counselling his son he sat down in his place , and fifth in order meriones got ready his horses . they then all mounted their chariots and cast lots . achilles shook the helmet , and from it there fell the very lot which they wanted the lot of ajax . the herald bore it about and showed it to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children are not here . ulysses then said , now tell me ; are they sleeping among the trojan troops , or do they lie apart ? explain this that i may understand it . i will expound to the son of aesculapius , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? the shouts of men fighting by our ships grow stronger and stronger ; stay here , therefore , all of you , till we take the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing 
