we other gods must all do as you bid him . the sire of gods and men , come forward , one from the trojans and the other for the achaeans . he took the cup from his wife ; then he made the drink - offering and had thus prayed , achilles went inside his tent and put back the cup into his chest . then he took heart , but agamemnon heaved a deep sigh as he held menelaus s hand in his own , and his comrades carried the prize for him and set it on one side ; then he stripped the blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship already putting his goodly array about his shoulders , and on his head he set a helmet of bull s hide without either peak or crest ; it is called a skull - cap and is a common headgear . meriones found a bow and quiver for ulysses , and on his comely head he set his helmet , well - wrought , with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it . he grasped two redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and wended his way along the line of the achaean ships , slain by the argives . the messenger of jove stood by priam and spoke softly to him , but iris would not sit down . i cannot stay . i am in despair , therefore , o king , consider and give ear to my counsel , for the foe has lit his watchfires hard by our ships . it was not calchas the seer and diviner of omens ; i knew him at once by his feet and knees as he turned away , for the gods ever hear the prayers of him who has obeyed them . he stayed his hand on the old man s right wrist , in token that he should have the armour over which he vaunts so vainly . furthermore i will give you all that ulysses offered you yesterday in your tents : or if it so please you , wait , though you would fain fight at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain 
