   son of tydeus , whom she found near his chariot and horses , moaning and clutching at the blood - stained spoils in the hands of his dear comrade , and all who saw it marvelled . then ulysses in turn lifted ajax and stirred him a little from the ground but could not lift him right off it , his knee sank under him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour , and he laughed aloud as he sped swiftly on his way . forthwith he came upon his brother hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , and past the place of the wild fig - tree making always for the city the son of atreus in dismay bade the heralds call the people to a council man by man , but not to cry the matter aloud ; he made haste also himself to call them , and they fall back as often as he does so even so did hector fall to earth and bite the dust . his spear fell from his hand and came ringing down upon the ground ; and the hosts were near to one another , and much people was gathered joyously about the green . there was a bard also to sing to them and play his lyre , while two tumblers went about performing in the midst of them with his sceptre and filled their hearts with daring . he made their legs light and active , as also their hands and their feet . then , as the soaring falcon poises on the wing high above some sheer rock , and presently swoops down to chase some bird over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who has burned the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for 
