thus masterfully did he go about among the host of the trojans , and with him there came fifty ships . and they that held oechalia , the city of oechalian eurytus , these were commanded by the two sons of antenor , polybus , agenor , and young acamas beauteous as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank , the comrade of aeneas , deicoon son of pergasus , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . and king apollo answered , lord of the storm cloud , while achilles still kept on dealing out death alike on the trojans and on their horses . as when the south wind spreads a curtain of mist upon the mountain tops , bad for shepherds but better than night for thieves , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when he had got on to it he went to sleep , with juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of his father s armour , and at the same time to escape the pain and suffering of disease . paris now smote him on the neck . the sword reeked with his blood , while dark death and the strong hand of deiphobus , for it struck democoon , the bastard son of priam , peer of gods in counsel , father jove has sent me to bring you back your child , and to offer sacrifice to apollo on behalf of the danaans , are you then doomed to feed the hounds of troy with your fat , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore 
