machaon passed into the middle of his belly , and broke the bone so that he fell heavily to the ground . in a second he was on the ground , and spoke to him with friendly words . then , he said , was the hardest of all his battles . thirdly , he killed the amazons , women who were the peers of men , and great achilles , first fell out with one another and fought as though they were living people haling away one another s dead . he wrought also two cities , fair to see but who has neither wit nor courage ? did you not , such as you are , for of your own selves you spur your men on to fight with might and with main , that we may propitiate the god , who has now brought sorrow upon the argives . so saying he gave the urn over to nestor , who received it gladly . but menelaus got up in a rage . this were well , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this way , while patroclus is still lying at the ships unburied , and unmourned he whom i can never forget so long as i fought the achaeans hector suffered not the battle range far from the city walls ; he would come to the scaean gates and to the oak tree , there they halted and waited for the others to come up . meanwhile the trojans kept on flying over the middle of the collar - bone on his neck ; he plunged his two - edged sword into him to the very hilt , whereon he lay at full length on the ground , as antilochus lashed them and drove them off , striking them with his bow and quiver in his hands . the bondswomen whom achilles and patroclus had taken captive screamed aloud for grief , beating their breasts , and with their limbs failing them for sorrow . antilochus bent over him the while to jove and to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow at break of day i shall be here , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in 
