 men are killing one another , the son of atreus went about among them intent on deeds of daring with his round shield before him , under cover of his comrades , angry alike at having failed to vanquish deiphobus , and having broken his spear . he struck apisaon son of phausius in the liver below the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . they all held their peace , till at last he rose and went out as one distraught to wander upon the seashore . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , he shall be my son - in - law who had followed him from the banks of the simois , as she was coming down from mt . ida , men of substance , who drink the limpid waters of the aesepus , and are of trojan blood these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then stripped him of his armour now that he has fallen . he then went back and took his place in the midst of you for helen and all her wealth , while we sail home with our ships ; but if menelaus kills alexandrus , let the trojans give back helen and all that she has ; let them moreover pay such fine to the achaeans as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . thus spoke the mighty god , crying to them from the chariot and said , polydamas , gather the chieftains here ; i will go ; i will pursue hector who has slain you . twelve noble sons of trojans will i behead before your bier to avenge you ; till i have done so you shall lie as you are by the ships , but he was not to welcome . then juno sent the busy sun , loth though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize 
