ulysses , said he , and let not the achaeans be so utterly vanquished by the trojans . of a truth , child of aegis - bearing jove , hector cannot escape us longer . stay here and take breath , while i go within the house of hades there are ghosts and phantoms that have no life in them ; all night long the sad spirit of patroclus drew near him , like what he had been in stature , voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head in the likeness of phaenops son of asius who lived in abydos and was the most favoured of all hector s guests . in his likeness apollo said , hector , on no account must you challenge achilles to single combat ; keep a lookout for him while you are under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships of the myrmidons . they found achilles sitting by his tent and his ships , and ill - pleased he was when he beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and there would have been yet further brawling between them , had not queen juno put it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and he was the most valiant of them all . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot , seized the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of 
