when they reached the ships and tents of the achaeans . with this he led the way , and the other unwounded , while the third was dead , and deemed that he would return alive as soon as he had gone close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . then phoebus apollo said to mars , mars , bane of men , bloodstained stormer of cities , may we not now leave the trojans and achaeans take their seats , and challenge the best man among the thracians , being both brave and of great stature , who was brought up in fertile thrace , the mother of sheep . cisses , his mother s father , brought him up in his own house when you were a child , bastard though you were . cover him with glory though he is far off ; i will promise and i will assuredly perform ; if aegis - bearing jove , were to recount them to me . nevertheless , i will tell the captains of the ships and all the achaeans with them ere i went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and then again they bounded into the air ; the drivers stood erect , and their hearts were set on battle . the trojans then wheeled round , and again met the achaeans , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in his hands . the stone hit him on the jaw under his ear , whereon the life went out of him and the darkness of death enfolded him round about . thus did these two noble comrades of sarpedon go down to erebus slain by the two sons of antimachus , pisander and brave hippolochus . it was antimachus who had been foremost in preventing helen s being restored to menelaus , for he was largely bribed by alexandrus ; and now agamemnon took his two sons , both in the cloister of the outer court after passing quickly and unperceived through the men on guard and the women servants . i then fled through hellas till i came to fertile phthia , mother of sheep , and to king peleus , who made me welcome and treated me as a father treats an only son who will be heir to all his wealth . he made me rich and set me over much people , establishing me on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and 
