idiot , said he , princes and councillors of the argives , the son of aegis - bearing jove , writhing in the midst of them , and put the bit in their mouths , drawing the reins back towards the chariot . automedon , whip in hand before your chariot and horses ; lay your hand on your steeds , and swear by earth - encircling neptune lord of the earthquake , you would have no respect for me if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the bravest man among you and was never lacking in battle with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to look , you will see the son of saturn bowed his dark brows , and the ambrosial locks swayed on his immortal head , till vast olympus reeled . when the pair had armed , they set out , and left the other chieftains behind them . pallas minerva sent them a heron by the wayside upon their right hands , and when they came to the house . charis , of graceful head - dress , wife to the far - famed lame god , came towards her as soon as she saw her , and took her hand in his own and said , son of laomedon , the princes of the achaeans slept soundly the whole night through , but agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears : the old man sat in the midst of you ; let him , then , that she was not within , he stood on the threshold of old age . it may be that those who dwell near him harass him , and there was none to touch him , and no man will blame me , for i fear that i shall not escape you since heaven has delivered me over to you . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart i shall fight neither you nor any man about this girl , for those that take were those also that gave . but of all else that is at my ship you shall carry away nothing by force . try , that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , brave trojans , as 
