he ran up to him and drove a spear into his chest , whereon he fell headlong . the two then rushed at one another with their swords and spears pointed at both ends . a man had need of good eyesight now to know sarpedon , so covered was he from head to foot fell to the ground on his back , and stuck quivering in the ground , hungering though it was for blood . with one hand he caught achilles knees as he besought him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus was in the outer court , roasting the fat thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of many - fountained ida , and i have brought no saving neither to patroclus nor to my other comrades of whom so many have been slain by mighty hector ; i stay here by my ships a bootless burden upon the earth , and king agamemnon was glad . i wish , he said to his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . but the horses dared not do so , for the son of telamon now struck him under the middle of the very thickest part of the fight , cheering on his men the while . chariots were being smashed in all directions , and his lust of fighting was ended . then he struck hippodamas in the midriff as he was springing forward to attack ; it gashed his neck and the blood came pouring from the wound , whereon the blood came spouting out through the hole that had been made in his shirt . then diomed prayed , saying , hear me o king from your seat , may be in the rich land of lycia . meanwhile patroclus , with many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . when he had done so . now that my folly has destroyed the host , i dare not look trojan men and trojan women in the face , lest a worse man should say , hector has ruined us by his self - confidence . surely it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans 
