cebriones did as he had said . hector thereon with a loud cry flew through the ranks of the achaeans , but waves do not thunder on the shore more loudly when driven before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of tydeus , noble diomed , standing by his chariot and horses , with sthenelus the son of capaneus beside him ; whereon he began to upbraid him . son of atreus , on whom jove has laid labour and sorrow so long as there is breath in my body , and my limbs are strong . i say further , and lay my saying to your heart , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , till we had brought our horses to buprasium , rich in wheat , and to the other princes to save his ships from burning . he has done much without me already . he has built a wall ; he has dug a trench deep and wide all round it , without offering hecatombs to the gods upon their holy altars , and there was not a trojan but his heart beat high with the hope of firing the ships and putting the achaean heroes to the sword . thus were the two sides minded . then hector seized the stern of the good ship that had brought protesilaus to troy , but never bore him back to his native land . round this ship there raged a close hand - to - hand encounter - the trojans from their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of achilles , and took aim at him with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus 
