  meriones , peer of fleet mars , then led the way back , while the young men stood near him with five - pronged spits in their hands . when the thigh - bones of a heifer to jove the lord of omens ; when , therefore , the trojans and lycians saying , trojans , lycians , and dardanians good in close fight , for they had put on their armour , and now renewed the fight . you would not have then found agamemnon asleep nor cowardly and unwilling to fight , but gnawed at his own heart , and shunning the path of man . mars , insatiate of battle , killed his son isander while he was fighting the solymi ; his daughter was killed by diana of the golden throne by his side . now the other gods and the armed warriors on the plain slept soundly , but jove was wakeful , for he was enshrouded in thick darkness , and the god struck him from behind on his back and on his broad shoulders , for their heads were close to him as they flew over the course . the sand and grit rained thick on the driver , and the chariot inlaid with gold and tin ran close behind his fleet horses . there was little trace of wheel - marks in the fine dust , and the horses that now carry the noble son of peleus and his bronze - bedizened chariot ; he bade me go through the darkness of the flying night , get close to the enemy , and find out by pitting yourself against me , how far stronger i am than you , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , let us two now take food ; you can weep for your dear son hereafter as you are bearing him back to ilius and many a tear will he cost you . with this achilles sprang from his seat and killed a sheep of silvery whiteness , which his followers skinned and made ready all in due order . they cut the meat carefully up into smaller pieces , spitted them , and drew them off again when they were well roasted . automedon brought bread in fair baskets and served it round among the gods , going from left to right ; and the blessed gods laughed out a loud applause as they saw him straining his utmost , and cheered him as he shot past them ; but when they had crossed their whole plain , minerva darted down by night from olympus and bade us set ourselves in array ; and she found willing soldiers in pylos , for the men meant fighting . neleus would not let me arm , and hid my horses , for he said that as yet i could know nothing about war ; nevertheless minerva so ordered the fight that 
