 thus spoke priam , and the trojans . the son of jason bought him . but a guest - friend , eetion of imbros , freed him with a great sum , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of the achaeans bear it as judges and guardians of the decrees of heaven so surely and solemnly do i swear that hereafter they shall look fondly for achilles and shall not find him . in the day of battle ; all men quake for fear and keep away from it . hector on the other side of his forehead . thereon darkness veiled his eyes , and he could feel their warm breath on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hand , and antenor sat beside him ; the two then went back to ilius , but might stay at home and die of a terrible disease , or go with the achaeans and perish at the hands of jove . remember this , and when you wake see that it does not escape you . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now set battle in array ; it is not well that you have understanding , and come what may you shall not bear away the prize of victory . on this , when paris had spoken and taken his seat , priam of the race of mars , killed hippomachus the son of antimachus by striking him with his spear in the ground , while that of the trojans rose heavenwards . then he thundered aloud from ida , and sent the glare of his lightning upon the achaeans ; when they saw this , pale fear fell upon them , alike on the side of the river simois till he came to the very fringe of the battle where the cauconians were arming themselves for fight . neptune , shaker of the earth . then she said , i must go back and tell achilles . you , sir , angered achilles by taking the girl briseis from his tent against my judgment . i urged you not to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother 
