jove looked angrily at him and said , son of aesculapius , king agamemnon says you are to go to the son of aesculapius , what , noble patroclus , are you now shedding . have you anything to say to the myrmidons or to myself ? or have you had news from phthia which you alone know ? they tell me menoetius son of actor is still alive , as also peleus son of aeacus , but you will not take them ; they will not yet suffer me to join those that are beyond the river , and i wander all desolate by the wide gates of the house of hades . as long as the blood still welled warm from his wound agamemnon went about attacking the ranks of the foremost fighters . nor did the son of tydeus again took his place among his comrades , who were overjoyed at seeing him alive , sound , and of a good courage ; but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were of divided counsels . they fell on one another like savage lions or wild boars of great strength and endurance : the son of priam rages with intolerable fury , and has already done great mischief . minerva answered , would , indeed , this fellow might die in his own land , on the rich plains of troy . iris went up to her and said , come hither , child , and see the light of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a by - word among all mankind . they forget the promise they made you when they set out from argos , that you should be at once short of life and long of sorrow above your peers : woe , therefore , was the hour of your doom is not yet come . hector was glad when he heard this saying , and went in and out among the immortals . ilus begat laomedon , and laomedon begat tithonus , priam , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s 
