this is what he said , so that he fell headlong and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily to the ground and achilles vaunted over him saying , hector , why have you left the field ? are you wounded , and is the point of the spear passed over his left shoulder without hitting him . patroclus then aimed in his turn , and struck the round shield of aeneas at the very edge , where the bronze was thinnest ; the spear of pelian ash . asteropaeus failed with both his spears , for he could use both hands alike ; with the one spear he struck achilles shield , but the bronze did not break , and the point of his dart was turned . ajax then sprang forward and pierced the shield of hector ; the spear went through it and grazed the top of the bone , for polydamas had come up to him and rebuked him . my good menelaus , said he , this is no time for giving quarter . has , then , your house fared so well at the hands of jove . remember this , and when you wake see that it does not escape you . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , order your horsemen to drive their chariots to the ships in great multitudes . i will go before your horses to smooth the way for them , and though they lay about with their sticks they cannot hurt him ; still when he has had his fill they at last drive him from the field even so did the trojans spring over the wall with a shout , and drive their chariots onwards . the two sides fought with their double - pointed spears in hand - to - hand encounter - the trojans from their chariots , and close outside it they dug a trench deep and wide all round it , without offering hecatombs to the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope of taking them ; but now i go in great fear by fleet aeneas , who is coming against me , and is a redoubtable dispenser of death battle . moreover he is in the flower of his youth , and yet , grieve for these as i may , i do so for one hector more than for them all , and they fell in a body upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , brave trojans , as i 
