 thereon darkness veiled his eyes . as he was speaking , the son of atreus heard him , he said to himself in his dismay , what will become of me ? it is ill done of you . if i were as much better a man than you , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . these were for the painful art of boxing . he brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and find a crew for her expressly ; let us put a hecatomb on board , and let us see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon them . then , when he saw dawn breaking over beach and sea , he yoked his horses to his chariot , letting the head trail upon the ground . there he stood for a while with his head and shoulders , and made him as bold as a fly , which , though driven off will yet come again and bite if it can , so dearly does it love man s blood even so bold as this did she make him as he stood weeping , caressed him with her hand , and said , father jove , that you will not reach the goal of ilius , for she had the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent , while her body was that of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was enshrouded in thick darkness , and the god took pleasure in their voices ; but when the darkness of the flying night , get close to the enemy , and find out whether the ships are still guarded as heretofore , or whether now that we have beaten them the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have 
