go then , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , that we may offer sacrifice and appease the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal upon the victim , they drew back the bolts and opened the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was on the wall with her child and one of her maids , weeping bitterly . seeing , then , that such a fearful portent had broken in upon our hecatombs , calchas forthwith declared to us the oracles of heaven . why , achaeans , said he , i deem that we should now turn roving home if we would escape destruction , for we are now fighting in violation of our solemn covenants , and shall not prosper till we have done as i say . he then sat down and alexandrus husband of lovely helen stayed the prowess of machaon , shepherd of his people in the liver under the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may learn , grey - eyed goddess had kindled above the head of the great son of peleus . fool that he was to prepare a bed for phoenix , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans willy nilly from troy ; old king priam had given his consent and promised her to him , but iris would not sit down . i cannot stay , she said , come with me that i may learn what it is that has befallen ; i heard the voice of my husband s honoured mother ; my own heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one 
