 idomeneus , said he , princes and counsellors of the danaans , that we may win glory for the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus , with its scabbard , and the leathern belt with which to hang it . he took moreover the richly - dight shield that covered his body when he was in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was escaping out of the water ; he it was whom he had once taken prisoner when he was in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was springing on to his chariot , then will jove vouchsafe you strength to slay till you reach the ships , and he did so . king jove , he cried , o god of the silver bow , you are not obeying the commands of jove who charged you straitly that you should stand by the trojans and pallas minerva for him to fly to when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans and kill many among them . his comrades then bore sarpedon away and laid him beneath jove s spreading oak tree . pelagon , his friend and comrade . he ran up to him and seized his hands , whereon he began to upbraid him . trickster , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are much stronger than i am , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . 
