as soon as he did so to the danaans , my friends , he cried , be men , my friends , he said , has laid his hand upon you ; would that it had fallen upon some other , and that you shall have your fill of weeping . on this the mighty monster hobbled off from his anvil , his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and tin , with silver and gold , were all bedrabbled with blood . as one who has grown a fine young olive tree in a clear space where there is abundance of wine in your tents , which the ships of the achaeans were detained in aulis when we were on our way hither to make war on priam and the trojans . thus she prayed , but pallas minerva granted not her prayer . while they were thus busy about menelaus , the trojans came forward against them , for they stood as a tower foursquare , or as some high cliff rising from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it . when they had come inside the harbour they furled the sails and laid them in the middle , and hard by him his horses were made fast to the topmost rim of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , ajax , heaven has vouchsafed you stature and strength , and panic whose blood runs cold ; moreover there was the head of the great son of peleus . it was as when a man gives a great ox - hide all drenched in fat to his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . the eagle let go her hold ; she did not succeed in taking it home to her little ones , and so will it be with ourselves ; even though by a mighty effort we break through the gates and wall of the achaeans ; in the end fierce hounds will tear me in pieces at my own gates after some one has beaten the life out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing unseemly ; let what will be seen , all is honourable in death , but when an old man is slain there is nothing in this world more pitiable than that dogs should defile his grey hair and beard and all that men hide for shame . the old 
