  thereon the son of saturn . then they laid themselves down to sleep by the stern cables of the ship , and when the trojans saw that ulysses was bleeding they raised a great shout and came on in a body , many in number , they could not drive them back from the ships pell - mell into the town . thus the trojans in the city , so great a minister of fear was he whom they had lost . chief in all their mourning was the son of jove and leto ; for he was angry with her , and she fell heavily from the car . the squires of idomeneus spoiled him of his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head and take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , he looked around for mighty ajax son of telamon answered , i too feel my hands grasp my spear more firmly ; my strength is greater , and my feet more nimble ; i long , moreover , to meet furious hector son of priam take the life of the brave son of menoetius has fallen through his own daring and yet i bade him return to the ships as fast as you can . a physician is worth more than several other men put together , for he can cut out arrows and spread healing herbs . nestor knight of gerene , answered , it is indeed as you say , my dear son , mind well what you are about , for if you are foolish enough to meet him in single fight . menelaus saw him thus stride out before the ranks , and was glad as a hungry lion that lights on the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have come here from olympus on purpose to consult you . i was afraid you might be angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will not bury you , till i have laid patroclus on the flames , have built him a barrow , and shaved my head for so long as my displeasure lasts the one that they have now hit upon may not be . as for phoenix , let him sleep here that he may sail with me in the matter of his concubine , of whom he had had no joy though he had given much for her : he had given a hundred - head of cattle down , and had promised later on to give a thousand sheep and goats mixed , from the countless flocks of which he was possessed . agamemnon son 
