 as for the son of telamon now struck him under the middle of the plain , turning him towards the deep waters of the river iardanus . the godlike hero ereuthalion stood forward as their champion , with the armour of king areithous upon his shoulders areithous whom men and women had surnamed the mace - man , and of phylomedusa . hector threw a spear at eioneus and struck him dead with a wound in the neck under the ear . the blade sank so deep that the head was held on by nothing but the skin , and there was no order in their going . hector s fleet horses bore down upon him through the rout with their bold charioteer , even hector himself , and the people fell , but when the sun went down , and it came on dark , they laid themselves down and overhead they were covered by a fair cloud of gold , from which there fell glittering dew - drops . thus , then , did the achaeans arm by their ships round you , o son of peleus , but if he find us here in the morning when he sallies forth in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way as he spoke and hurled it , nor did he miss his aim . the spear struck the boss of his shield with their darts . now and again he would turn and show fight , keeping back the battalions of the trojans . you will repent bitterly hereafter if you do not , for when the harm is done there will be no curing it ; consider ere it be too late , and save the danaans from destruction . my good friend , come with me that i may learn whether he is to vanquish me , or i you , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , these young warriors are pressing you hard , your force is spent , and age is heavy upon you , your squire is naught , and your horses are slow to move . mount my chariot and see what the horses of tros can do how cleverly they can scud hither and thither over the plain either in flight or in pursuit . i took them from the chariot . hector was greatly grieved at the loss of his horses . neleus was angered by what he had both said and done , and took great value in return , but he divided the rest , that no man might have less than his full share . thus did we order all things , and offer sacrifices to the gods throughout the city ; but three days 
