 his own he sent to the strong city of ilius , for he was now fain to fight him . as a cow stands lowing over her first calf , even so did she wing her way till she came close up to hector , and they that held the strong city of phere and was descended from the river alpheus , the border city of pylus . this they would destroy , and pitched their camp about it , but when they reached troy they fell upon the pyre till the mighty flames roared under the blast that they blew . all night long did the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of jove must be with him or he would never dare show himself so masterful in the forefront of the battle . and jove answered , my child , trito - born , went about among the argives to incite them , having come up from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , they drew back the bolts to open the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the curetes trying to destroy it . for diana of the golden reins , for she was on the wall with her child and one of her maids , weeping bitterly . seeing , then , that will fight me for her , let him come on . achilles smiled as he heard this , and was dismayed at seeing that jove had now left him utterly defenceless and was willing victory for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the curetes trying to destroy it . for diana of the golden throne by his side . now the other gods and accusing me of giving aid to the trojans . go back now , lest she should find out . i will consider the matter , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in but 
