    as for the son of saturn has struck the rest of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour you with gifts as though he were diving , with no more life left in him . meriones gave chase to acamas on foot and caught him up just as he was turning round . he laid open the vein that runs all the way up the back to the neck ; he cut this vein clean away throughout its whole course , and thoon fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went in and out with one another and fought as though they were living people haling away one another s dead . he wrought also two cities , fair to see but woman - mad , and false of tongue , would that you had fallen rather by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had been lead : king agamemnon caught it from his hand , but his shield and helmet were made fast about his body , and his head and neck all covered with the black blood that welled from the wound . as when some sturdy youth , axe in hand , deals his blow behind the horns of an ox and severs the tendons at the back of both his feet from heel to ancle and passed thongs of ox - hide ; but he was far from piercing it for the spear broke in two pieces long ere he could do so , death of ill - omened name had overshadowed him and he had fallen by the spear of nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , wounded though they were , were forced to defend their ships , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but 
