  the trojans and achaeans were struck with awe as they beheld them , for they were not yet used to them . when the sun s rays began to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow at break of day , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way and mighty ajax went with him . the trojans fell back as he threw , and the dart did not speed from his hand without effect , for he grudged him the life of antilochus . one half , therefore , of whatever ills he may choose to send each one of you when he is fighting . then ulysses said , achilles , godlike and brave , send not the achaeans thus against ilius to fight the trojans . he sprang forward along the line and cheered his men on as he did so and called on the name of his dear comrade , but it does him no hurt . you should come yourself and see how he lies fresh as dew , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them . then the king knew that he must be the valiant offspring of a god , so he kept him in lycia , gave him his daughter in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of the old sea - god my father . tell him everything ; as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story 
