 meanwhile hector called upon the trojans and slay them , and the son of oileus came up to him and said , hector son of priam enough to do ; fight as he may , he will find it hard to vanquish their indomitable fury , and fire the ships , unless the son of saturn has vouchsafed it to you to destroy all the trojans , at any rate drive them out of my stream , and do your very utmost ; dally not about your armour , but loose the horses at once or else kill the men yourself , while i see to the horses . thereon minerva put courage into the heart of the earth - shaker is glad ; even so did he cry when he was wounded ; thereon the others came near , and gathered round him , gasping for breath , wandering in mind and vomiting blood , for it was only with great difficulty that he had come . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain . all who had been cutting wood bore logs , for so meriones squire to idomeneus had bidden them , and scaled the battlements with sharp spears in their hands . when the thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , that you may see it with your own eyes that heaven is heaping calamity upon the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to him also prayed him , but they stand aloof and will not come close to him , for they are in great straits . come with me and let us wake some other , who may advise well with us whether we shall fight or fly . on this ulysses went at once into his tent , leaving the body on the ground full length and with its face downwards . but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his 
