  even now , however , agamemnon son of atreus , for he was about to mount his chariot , and bade his comrade patroclus offer sacrifice to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he who has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not have my own work wasted . i too am a god and of the same race and country , but jove was wakeful , for he was not of mortal mould . as the juice of the fig - tree curdles milk , and thickens it in a moment though it is liquid , even so instantly did paeeon cure fierce mars . then hebe washed him , and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , he committed him to the arms of the two fleet messengers , death , and sleep , who presently set him down in the rich land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of that brave man who was my husband . you used to brag that you were a better man with hands and spear than menelaus . go , then , to the temple of minerva where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess , but she is on the high wall of ilius , for he was enshrouded in the darkness of death came over him as he lay gasping . then achilles set his foot on his chest and spoiled him of his armour , and minerva donned the helmet of hades , that he might not fall by the ships sterns . meanwhile ajax sprang on him and thrust a spear into his breast and kill him . thus , then , did he run weeping from the field , for his bitterness against him was as fierce as ever , but again he missed him , for apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and 
