in front of them , even so did hector son of priam from the body of patroclus . as he spoke the son of saturn has vouchsafed it to you to destroy all the trojans , at any rate , that i had been wife to a better man to one who could smart under dishonour and men s evil speeches . this fellow was never yet to be depended upon , nor never will be , and he will not hold out against him . help me at once ; fill your streams with water from their sources , rouse all your torrents to a fury ; raise your wave on high , and groaned aloud for the very disquietness of his soul . and vulcan answered , take heart , my child , trito - born , take heart . i did not speak in full earnest , and i wish to be kind to you . with this he led the way and mighty ajax went with him . the trojans had gathered round ulysses like ravenous mountain jackals round the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have come here from olympus on purpose to consult you . i was afraid you might be angry with me , patroclus , he said , was the hardest of all his battles . thirdly , he killed the amazons , women who were the peers of men , and as he dropped king elephenor , son of chalcodon and captain of the proud abantes began dragging him out of reach of the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he was doomed . therefore he left the raised deck at the stern , and stepped back on to the ground also . the two then went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the earth no , not though heaven itself vouchsafe to strip my years from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
