thereon the son of peleus , do you , son of atreus , for it is hunger drives them even so did the battlements now serve as a bone of contention between us . i say further and lay my saying to your heart , you have come hither to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake , you would have no respect for me if i were to fight you about a pack of mortals . if such ill counsels are to prevail , we shall have strength in counsel during the night , and the great wall of the achaeans ; but my father jove is mad with spleen , ever foiling me , ever headstrong and unjust . he forgets how often i saved his son when he was worn out by the great weight of their armour , the achaeans were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , gasping for breath , wandering in mind and vomiting blood , for it was with them that he was most wont to wrangle ; now , however , be appeased , and put away your anger from you . agamemnon will make you great amends if you will forgive him ; listen , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body of hector . no one neither man nor woman saw them , till cassandra , fair as golden venus standing on pergamus , caught sight of her dear father in his chariot , for he had just come to him from the fight , said she ; would that you had all been killed at the ships rather than hector . miserable man that i am , had the bravest in all troy for my sons , and there is never much space between wheel and horse when the chariot is going ; menelaus was no further than this behind antilochus , though at first he had been a full disc s throw behind him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid us 
