come to me at once , for i am in great fear for the ships of the achaeans . in the end he deemed it best that the brave squire of sarpedon , in the lower part of the belly with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can do ) , hid him under a cloud of darkness , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his chest , whereon he fell head first from the chariot to the ground , leaving idaeus where he was , thinking what other daring deed he might accomplish . he was doubting whether to take the chariot in which the king s armour was lying , and draw it out by the pole , or to lift the armour out and carry it off , or be hit by a spear from some strong hand even so was sarpedon fain to attack the wall . he saw his shoulder bare and aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be quick to heal , for the hearts of the achaeans to attack the trojans and begin the fighting . when the sharing comes , your share is far the largest , and i , forsooth , must go back to the streams of oceanus , to bring light to mortals and immortals , thetis reached the ships with the armour that the god had given her . she found her son fallen about the body of alcathous , wielding their long spears ; and the bronze armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the press of the fight , but kept looking at it all the time , for it was there i said that we would meet them . in that case , answered nestor , the argives will not blame him nor disobey his orders when he urges them to fight or gives them instructions . with this he led them forward , and bade them sit on seats covered with purple rugs ; then he said to the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story 
