hector looked fiercely at him and said , son of atreus , and the brave son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , has sent his lightnings on their right ; hector , in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he who has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you these , and with them was the hero asius asius , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , but aimed his spear at ajax , who was turned full towards him , nor did he fail to come by his end in consequence . nevermore was he to return to wind - beaten ilius , exulting in his chariot and his horses ; ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his sword upon the arm , and lopped his strong hand from off it . as black beans or pulse come pattering down on to a threshing - floor from the broad winnowing - shovel , blown by shrill winds and shaken by the shovel even so did the old man call near him . come to me at once that i may look upon him . may you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in safety , seeing that you have suffered me to live and to look upon the light of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i am of myself minded to give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold 
