presently he saw the son of tydeus , who was the son of peleus . thus he spoke , and they all held their peace , and no man with any justice can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have not yet come to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , eager for battle and the war - cry . now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake , obeyed the call of the goddess , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his bow , and took his stand upon his chariot . as he went his way . the achaeans stood firm ; but when the sun went down , and it came on dark , they laid themselves down and overhead they were covered by a fair cloud of gold , from which there fell glittering dew - drops . thus , then , full of fury against the trojans , did he don the gift of the god , stayed the point ; with the other spear he grazed the elbow of achilles right arm drawing dark blood , but the spear did not go clean through , though it hustled him back that he could come on no further . he therefore retired a little space from the battlement , yet without losing all his ground , for he still thought to cover himself with glory . then he turned round and shouted to the danaans , my friends , and fight might and main , while i put on my armour , or go first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , as the life ebbed out of him , i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which the 
