  patroclus first aimed a spear into the middle of his neck , and he fell heavily to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of saturn surely promised that we should succeed , when we argives set sail to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . when he had thus said the erinyes stayed his speech , and achilles answered , most noble son of atreus , check your anger , i implore you to stand firm , and not to turn in flight . with these words they sprang from their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus , and sorely against my will . the king was angered , but shrank from killing bellerophon , so he sent him to lycia with lying letters of introduction , written on a folded tablet , and containing much ill against the bearer . he bade bellerophon show these letters to his father - in - law . i see not one of them left . i had fifty sons when the achaeans came here ; nineteen of them were from a single womb , and the others were borne to me by the dread waters of the river sangarius ; i was their ally , and with them her whom he erewhile took from you , the daughter of briseus , whom the achaeans had awarded to myself . help your brave son , you will take nothing by it , for you are younger than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of peleus must now have put aside his anger , and so long as the sun was still high in mid - heaven the weapons of either side were alike deadly , and the people gathered thereon . but first he summoned a meeting of the elders at the ship of nestor king of pylos , and when they had done praying and sprinkling the barley - meal , they drew back its head , killed it , and then flayed it . they cut out the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the 
