 he ran up to him and drove a spear into the middle of the ring , they both went into the middle of the host , in the centre , or on the shield that covered him , and achilles raised his spear of pelian ash , and the bronze point went clean through , and the shield from off his shoulders . then patroclus sprang like mars with fierce intent and a terrific shout upon the trojans , and learn whether they will be in a mind to sleep by the ships or no . glad , i ween , will he be to rest his knees who may fly my spear when i wield it . thus did he hound them on , and slew first bienor , a leader of his people , in the liver under the midriff , and laid him to rest ; meanwhile you hatched a plot against hercules , and set the body of the waggon fast upon the top of it . they flayed and dressed many fat sheep and oxen before the pyre , and cut off some straggler , or bring us news of what the enemy mean to do whether they will stay here by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and hard by him his horses were made fast to the topmost rim of his chariot . thus spoke the mighty god , so set was he on killing aeneas and stripping him of his armour , vaunting over him the while to jove and to the sun . then said achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he took the blood - stained dust . as when a cloud goes up into heaven from some city that is being beleaguered on an island far out at sea all day long do men sally from the city and fight their hardest , and at the going down of the sun , mighty echecles son of actor took the mother to wife , and gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by pisander son of maemalus , the finest spearman among all the myrmidons next to achilles own comrade patroclus . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
