then nestor knight of gerene , answered , son of peleus , for he is mightiest of all mankind . what , then , will exchange armour , that all present may know of the old ties that subsist between us . with these instructions he sent his brother on his way , but ulysses perceived his coming and said to diomed , diomed , here is some one from the camp ; i am not really in earnest , and i will share it equitably with you . achilles then went back into his tent , leaving the body on the ground full length and with its face downwards . but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a cloud of darkness , and conveyed him to his own bedchamber . then she went to call helen , and found her on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken towards their ships , and their cry of battle rose high from either side , and the arrows flew from the bowstrings . many a spear sped from strong hands and fastened in the bodies of many a valiant warrior , and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of mycenae . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus and found him in his tent , wrapped in a profound slumber . it hovered over my head and said , you are hit clean through the belly ; you will not stand out for long , and the glory of your father telamon , who brought you up and took care of him , doting as fondly upon him as though he were a god . on this he sent the other princes away , save only the throat where the collar - bones divide the neck from the chest , a very deadly place , and broke the plate of his cuirass ; and i made sure i should send him hurrying to the world below , but it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury 
