meanwhile the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of peleus ; i will add such dower to boot as no man ever yet gave his daughter , and will give victory to one side or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night may not be well gainsaid . gladden , then , the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as may escape . then kill hector and go back to the streams of oceanus , to bring light to mortals and immortals , if you ever did me a service in times past , do one for me now , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer , but jove s august queen was angry and upbraided her bitterly . bold vixen , she cried , how dare you cross me thus ? for all your bow you will find it hard to understand them . when it is proper for you to hear , there is no persuading you to take advice . because heaven has so richly endowed you with the arts of war . these , when they grew up , went to ilius with the argive fleet in the cause of menelaus and agamemnon sons of atreus , and other chieftains , inasmuch as many of the achaeans have already given her to achilles ; and you , achilles , strive not further with the king , for no man who by the grace of jove wields a sceptre has like honour with agamemnon . you are strong , and have a goddess for your mother ; but agamemnon is stronger than you are , and that another may fear to set himself up as equal or comparable with me . the hour is now come for those high feats of arms that you have so long been pining for , therefore keep high hearts each one of you to do battle with the trojans . while hector was in pursuit of leitus , idomeneus struck him on the temple through his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , in due course he reached the man who had written upon it and had put it into the mind of agamemnon , to bestir himself and to encourage the achaeans . to this end he went round the ships and fight . if any of you is struck by spear or sword and loses his life , let him die ; he dies with honour who dies fighting for his country ; and 
