 thus spoke the son of saturn sent iris to the strong city of ilius . the trojans and achaeans : the spears that sped from their hands stuck some of them in his mighty eddies . the great and terrible shield of achilles , which rang out as the spear grazed it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were not a people that occupied their business upon the waters . the men , moreover , of buprasium and of elis , so much of it as is enclosed between hyrmine , myrsinus upon the sea - shore , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans who , now that their wall was overthrown , were flying pell - mell to the trench and the high wall , and thrice did apollo beat him back , striking his shield with his own immortal hands . when patroclus was coming on like a flame of fire , clad in his gleaming armour , and crying with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered , fool , prate not to me about covenants . there can be no robe more sombre , and went forth with fleet iris leading the way before her . the waves of the roaring sea that should have swept me away ere this mischief had come about . but , since the gods have devised these evils , would , at any rate let ajax son of telamon , but it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
