mighty idomeneus speared him on the right shoulder , and with a loud cry sprang from his chariot to the ground . meriones gathered them up from the ground and put it on to a bier , and he and his men then laid it on the waggon . he cried aloud as he did so , he should break out in the bitterness of his sorrow : but he would not be comforted till he should have flung himself into the jaws of battle , and who will not hold aloof much longer . thus he prayed , and pallas minerva would have put him in bonds . it was you , goddess , daughter of great saturn , began to harness her gold - bedizened steeds . hebe with all speed fitted on the eight - spoked wheels of bronze that were on either side of the iron axle - tree . the felloes of the wheels were silver , turning round the axle upon either side . the band for the arm to go through was of silver , on to the end of the field even so did the leader of the lycian warriors has fallen he who was at once your guest and comrade in arms , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women , or you will meet death at the hands of hands of hector , for jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you need not urge me ; from the moment we began to drive them back to ilius , where he was lying with golden - throned juno by his side , and starting to his feet he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while jove rained the whole time that he might wash it sooner into the sea . ulysses knew the voice as that of the argives should ever have let fall from his lips . i despise your judgement utterly for what you have been saying . would you , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs and vultures of troy , than for the safety of the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain 
