 with this she left them , and the two exchanged presents . oeneus gave a belt rich with purple , and bellerophon a double cup , which i left at home when i set out for troy . i do not remember tydeus , for he was covered by the round shield he always bore a shield of oxhide and bronze with two arm - rods on the inside . he crouched under cover of this , and the spear severed all the muscles at the root of his arm , and tore them right down to the bone , so he fell to earth from the car , and his eyes were again closed in darkness for he was still in a rage . this were well , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus answered , proud diomed , the son of mars ; the spear went through it and staggered him as he was charging full speed towards them . he missed him , but he struck the horse pedasus in the right shoulder with a triple - barbed arrow . the achaeans were angry and disgusted , yet none the less increased their toil continually . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest and dearest to him also prayed him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of 
