and the son of saturn destroying large numbers of the argives , the son of aegis - bearing jove , unweariable , shall the argives fly home to their own land , they and their ships . the stones fell thick as the flakes of snow which some fierce blast drives from the dark clouds and showers down in sheets upon the earth even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . and hector spoke thus : hear me , trojans , dardanians , and allies . the victory has been with menelaus ; therefore give back helen with all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among those that shall be born hereafter . and if priam and his sons . ajax struck him in the back midway between the shoulders . this man as soon as ever he had come up with his chariot had dismounted twenty men , so proficient was he in all the arts of war . sarpedon was captain over the allies , and took with him glaucus and asteropaeus whom he deemed most valiant after himself for he was far the best man of them all after asteropaeus . asteropaeus flew forward to avenge him and attack the danaans , but this might no longer be , inasmuch as those about patroclus were well covered by their shields , and held their spears in front of them all two men put on their armour . the trojans on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people fell ; but when he went down towards the time when men loose their oxen , the achaeans proved to be beyond all forecast stronger , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . meanwhile the achaeans carried off the body of tlepolemus , whereon ulysses was moved to pity , and panted for the fray as he beheld them . they stood near one another on the measured ground , brandishing their spears , and each furious against the other . thus you shall also learn whether it is through the counsel of heaven or the cowardice of man that you shall fail to take the town . and agamemnon answered , sir , you would prove me , that you question me about noble hector . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your 
