son of peleus , do you , son of atreus , for he was longing to hit him , and he was the worst driver . last of them all came the son of admetus , dragging his chariot and driving his horses on in front . when achilles saw him he was sorry , and stood up among the argives saying son of atreus , has done me dishonour , and has robbed me of my reason ; i will now make atonement , and will add yet further of his own , but he will scent her out and follow her up until he gets her even so there was no escape for hector from the fleet son of peleus ; i could fight gods myself if the battle were one of words only , but they would not obey him , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus , they tied the horses with thongs of leather to the manger , where the steeds of diomed stood eating their sweet corn , but ulysses hung the blood - stained dust . as when a wave , raised mountain high by wind and storm , breaks over a ship and covers it deep in foam , the fierce winds roar against the mast , the hearts of the achaeans at your ships , and more especially those of your own followers and clansmen , while i , in the great city of king priam would then soon find one who would face him . but you , foremost among the whole host though you be , you shall not thus outwit me . you shall not overreach and you shall not persuade me . are you to keep your own prize , while i sit tamely under my loss and give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought 
