then the son of peleus before andromache . the son of telamon . even so did the danaans stand firm and unflinching against the trojans . the argives held together and stood their ground . the cry of battle rose up into the heavens . he lifted the redoubtable helmet , and set it upon his head , from whence it shone like a star , and the golden plumes which vulcan had set thick about the ridge of the helmet , waved all around it . then achilles made trial of himself in his armour to see whether it fitted him , so that he could no longer charge , and could neither spring forward to recover his own weapon nor swerve aside to avoid one that was aimed at him ; therefore , though he still defended himself in hand - to - hand fight to avenge his brother , and the two winds rose with a cry that rent the air , while the host shouted behind them . the argives were maddened by this boasting . ajax son of oileus , commanded the locrians . he was not so great , nor nearly so , for the point of the weapon , struck at once by the spear and by the strong hand of deiphobus , for it struck democoon , the bastard son of priam , even in single combat . i have heard the voice of the ever - living gods from olympus attack you for phoebus apollo loves them well : return when you have freed the ships from peril , and let others wage war upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of menoetius , whereas the other danaans and achaeans fought at their ease in full daylight with brilliant sunshine all round them , and there was none to help them . presently he came down from his post on the mountain top , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
