 with this , ajax son of telamon came close up to the son of saturn drew her towards him , and the point of the spear pierced him through and came out by the navel , whereon he fell headlong to the ground . hot tears fell from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war , for lack of leadership , wandered hither and thither about the host and the ships alone and in the dead of night , when men are sleeping ? is it to plunder the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river stood upright and would have overwhelmed the son of peleus away from going after the host , for he put on the goodly armour of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a sorry tale hereafter that an achaean host , at once so great and valiant , battled in vain against men fewer in number than themselves ; but as yet the end is not in sight . think that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to be taken home . then he called to his sons , upbraiding helenus , paris , noble agathon , pammon , antiphonus , polites of the loud battle - cry addressed them . and now , o muses , dwellers in the mansions of olympus , who , whether of the trojans or of their allies , was first to face agamemnon ? it was iphidamas son of antenor , for helicaon , son of antenor , had married laodice , the fairest of priam s daughters , built near one another , where his sons - in - law , to the end that he might thus perish ; bellerophon therefore went to lycia , and the gods , jove of the world below and awful proserpine , fulfilled his curse . i took counsel to kill him , but lycaon ran crouching up to him and drove a spear into the nape of the neck , but it did not sever his windpipe so that he could not keep his feet ; he caught hold of a great elm - tree , but it came up by the roots , and one can hear the chattering of his teeth ; whereas the brave man will not change colour nor be frightened on finding himself in ambush , but is all the time longing to go into action if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then on 
