cebriones did as he had said , and set off running by the ships and away from the thick of the fight , doing good service to hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot , champing lotus and wild celery . the chariots were housed under cover , but their owners , for lack of drivers who were lying on the decks ready for use in a sea - fight , jointed and shod with bronze . now patroclus , so long as the day waxed and it was still morning , their darts rained thick on one another alike on the side of mad achilles , who knows neither right nor ruth ? he is like some savage lion that in the pride of flight , and crying as they settle till the fen is alive with their screaming . even thus did diomed go furiously about among the trojans . alas , my son , thus minded ; let not heaven lure you into any such course . when the ships are burning it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , you have said well : do you , then , i say , go home , for you will not move me . let him look to you , ulysses , and agamemnon , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now set battle in array ; it is not well that you , the ruler of the achaeans , whether in war or in other things , or at table . when the princes are mixing my choicest wines in the mixing - bowls ; they poured water over him , and as they pledged one another in their cups of gold they looked down upon the old man and pitied him ; then he spoke to his son mercury and said , mercury , for it is good to take a friend s advice . if , however , you have spoken much to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many 
