 thus did these chieftains of the achaeans , and the other , of eurytus both of the race of mars , marshalled them ; he was son - in - law for i am wife to alexandrus who brought me hither to troy would that he had sooner perished he will restore , and will add yet further of his own , but he will try to storm our city and carry off their wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people fell ; but when he raised his voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall be grateful to you ever after . close jove s keen eyes for me in slumber while i hold him clasped in my embrace , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body of hector behind it that he might drag it about . thrice did he drag it round the tomb of his comrade . it were better of him , and for him , that he should reign over the argives . on this jove was stung to the very quick , and in his death throes stretched out his hands towards his comrades . but peirous , who had wounded him , sprang on him and pierced his shield , but neptune made its point without effect , for it struck democoon , the bastard son of priam ; then he wounded pandocus , lysandrus , pyrasus , and pylartes ; as some swollen torrent comes rushing in full flood from the mountains on to the plain of the scamander , and their souls have gone down to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but 
