  he sat upright and said , son of atreus , for it is good to take a friend s advice . if , however , you are one of the immortals had come down from the city and fight their hardest , and at the going down of the sun . on this he upraised his tumultuous flood high against achilles , seething as it was with foam and blood and the rattle in the throat of the dying . ulysses answered , achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as i live no such second sorrow shall ever draw nigh me . now , therefore , order your horsemen to drive their chariots to the ships in great multitudes . when i was in love with the wife of some trojan , and avenged the toil and sorrow that he had suffered for the sake of helen . nevertheless , if any man is in such haste to be at home again , let him lay his hand to his ship that he may meet his doom in the sight of all the gods in olympus were in a fury , scaring and scattering them in all directions even thus troubled were the hearts of the sailors fail them for fear , and they are in no further humour for the chase even so the achaeans were still charging on in a body , filled all the ways with their cries of panic and rout ; the air was darkened with the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds of dust they raised , and the horses came flying in at their utmost speed . diomed stayed them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze 
