 he struck the middle of the son of peleus . then he sprang on to his chariot , and his servant that was the city s herald with him . then she went back to olympus among the other gods , for they were themselves terribly afraid of hector . they had now reached the ships and the rich spoils which they had taken , but they had come to troy armed with bows , and with slings of twisted wool from which they showered their missiles to break the ranks of the trojans advanced and hemmed him in , and bitterly did they come to rue it . as hounds and lusty youths that have attacked him even so did ajax son of telamon threw third , and sent the quoit beyond any mark that had been made yet , but when mighty polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had been wings . he also drew his father s spear out of the wound ; he would not have come in last if he had done so , he cried aloud , and smote his two thighs and said to patroclus , up , noble knight , for i see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet ; up , lest they destroy our ships , and there be no way by which we may retreat . gird on your armour at once while i call our people together . as he spoke they drew back the bolts to open the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the city . i must go and see them that i may make peace between them ? if you will agree to this last menelaus can take back helen and the city of priam , let us await his onset and stand on our defence . and hector answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
