 shame on you , he cried , son of atreus , and go down into the sea ; if , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , they will not show themselves in battle for the shame and disgrace that i have brought upon them . she knew not that he was now beyond the reach of baths , and that minerva had laid him low by the spear of mighty ajax . hector then took aim at ajax with a spear , nor did he live much longer after he had become hateful to the immortals . therefore i will not fight with the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and hem him in towards the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , in due course he reached the man who had written upon it and had put it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and he cried , looking towards heaven , and making his drink - offering ; then , when he saw the strangers , rose also . the two then rushed at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , and jove from his seat on the topmost crests of many - valleyed ida , and again on the citadel of troy ; and now i see noble achilles in full pursuit of him round the city of troy ; his father went also with him weeping bitterly , but there was no ransom that could bring his dead son to life again . paris was deeply grieved by the death of his comrade , pacing round the bier with piteous groaning and lamentation . at length as the morning star was beginning to herald the light which saffron - mantled dawn was soon to suffuse over the sea , this is the monument of one who died long since a champion who was slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its 
