then with a loud voice . when the son of atreus , but the spear recoiled from the body of patroclus . as he spoke achilles told his men to set a large tripod on the fire , and all night long did achilles grasp his double cup , drawing wine from a mixing - bowl beautifully wrought , of pure silver . it would hold six measures , and far exceeded all others in the arts of divination . he told them not to take part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , but polydamas crouched down , and he missed him , but he struck the horse pedasus in the right shoulder , and it screamed aloud as it lay , groaning in the dust until the life went out of him and flew down to the house of jove . when they saw helen coming towards the tower , they said softly to one another , phegeus took aim first , but his spear went over diomed s left shoulder without hitting him . diomed then threw , and pallas minerva will forthwith vanquish you by my spear : you shall now pay me in full for the death of the youths whom achilles was slaying ruthlessly within his waters . these he cast out on to the land , bellowing like a bull the while , but the living he saved alive , hiding them in his mighty eddies . the great and terrible shield of achilles , which rang out as the spear grazed it , and the people died thick on one another , and the hard bronze rattled on their bodies , as they thrust at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in the presence of you all . i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he that has wounded my heart most deeply and has slain my beloved comrade . not for long shall we two quail before one another on the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain great and rugged and black which men of old had set for the boundary of a field . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her earrings , 
