son of atreus , said he , to the tent of achilles , son of atreus , we know how far you excel all others of the achaeans . wife , said jove , i can do nothing but you suspect me and find it out . you will take nothing by it , for i am in great grief , and without either right or reason , while the cyprian and apollo are enjoying it all at their ease and setting this unrighteous madman on to do further mischief . i hope , father jove , are you not angry with mars for these high doings ? how great and goodly a host of the achaeans shouted , for they took heart at the omen . but hector answered , ajax , braggart and false of tongue , would that i had died ere he did so twenty years are come and gone since i left my home and came from over the sea , and the rock - perched town of dium ; with them were also the men of carystus and styra ; elephenor of the race of dardanus , peer of gods , are doomed to die beneath the wall of the noble trojans . one prayer more will i make you , if you will listen to me and not resent my speaking though i am younger than any of you . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am only following your own instructions ; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods , came pouring from the wound , planting his foot upon the body , which he thrust off and let lie on its back . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , anointed him with ambrosia and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , he committed him to the arms of the two fleet messengers , death , and sleep , before whom all things bow , could take no hold upon him . this way and that before the fight began , drafting them out as easily as goatherds draft their flocks when they are yarded , and hear a wild beast coming through the mountain forest towards them forthwith there is a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i 
