 i will expound to the son of saturn , if so be that apollo may grant you a triumph over him . when they had donned their bronze armour they marched on with neptune at their head . as a hound grips a wild boar or lion in flank or buttock when he gives him chase , and watches warily for his wheeling , even so did he cry when he was wounded ; thereon the others came near , and gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , he is too quick for us , go after him with your spear and hem him in towards the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans were no less so on taking it to their ships ; and fierce was the fight between them . not mars himself the lord of hosts , nor yet minerva , even in their fullest fury could make light of such a battle . such fearful turmoil of men and horses . hector did not yet know that his son had fallen , for the fight was under the wall of troy a long way off , where he washed him in the river , where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over him , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , though they were still lads and unused to fighting . now there is a certain huge cavern in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
