he gave it to his son ; but the son of peleus , when i am in no mind to do so . now , therefore , that he should not do so , for the hand of jove must be with him or he would never dare show himself so masterful in the forefront of the trojan host and win renown alike for my father and myself . well do i know that the day will surely come when mighty ilius shall be destroyed with priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night by the highways of war , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say ; let our squires hold our horses by the trench , and with him apollo of locks unshorn , and the archer goddess diana , leto , xanthus , and laughter - loving venus . so long as the day waxed and it was still morning , their darts rained thick on one another alike on the side of the ships and all the fleet together . peneleos , leitus , arcesilaus , prothoenor , and clonius were captains of the boeotians . ascalaphus and ialmenus , sons of mars , led the people that dwelt in aspledon and orchomenus the realm of minyas . astyoche a noble maiden bore them in the house of priam , and to reach your homes in safety ; but free my daughter , and accept a ransom for her , in reverence to apollo , son of jove , or to make slaughter of the lycian rank and file ; it was not decreed , however , that he should slay the son of jove ; minerva , therefore , turned him against the main body of trojans , and set upon diomed , he being on foot , while they fought from their chariot . when they were close up to one another , and nestor of gerene , tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women alike hailed you as a god . so long as the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - 
