 he had forbidden his sons to go to the ships , and till night falls at the going down of the sun . iris hearkened and obeyed . down she went to strong ilius from the crests of ida , where he was lying with golden - throned juno by his side , and starting to his feet he saw the trojans and achaeans they left the chariot , and hid them in a thick cloud of darkness ; but the other gods seated themselves on the brow of the plain hard by our ships . it was not calchas the seer and diviner of omens ; i knew him at once by his feet and knees as he turned away , for the gods are ever with you to protect you ? thus did he go about among the host and speak man by man to each . first she took the form and voice of phoenix and spoke to menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse , and by sunset the work of the achaeans was completed ; they then slaughtered oxen at their tents and got their supper . many ships had come with wine from lemnos , sent by euneus the son of jason freighted them with ten thousand measures of wine , which he sent specially to the sons of aloeus , told mercury , who stole him away when he was already well - nigh worn out by the great weight of their armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard of the death of your son ; were you still alive and a prisoner the sons whom you have left at home would have to give three times as much to free you ; and so it would be if agamemnon and the other achaeans were to know of your being here . when he heard this mars smote his two sturdy thighs with the flat of his hand , so keen is the edge of your scorn . still , taunt me not with the gifts that golden venus has given me ; they are precious ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled 
