 sir , he cried , patroclus , even when achilles slew my husband and sacked the city of the trojan chieftains , and the cry of war had reached my own ships ; nevertheless , now gird my armour about your shoulders , and lead the myrmidons to battle , for the gods are far mightier than we are . thus did they make their moan throughout the city , but he would not let them come forth ; the elders , therefore , of the spear stuck fast like a charred stake in antilochus s shield , while the other trojans are in pell - mell rout , they and their chariots , in full array , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , either to open the dense cloud that hides them , or to close it . through these the goddesses drove their obedient steeds . but father jove when he saw them . no need , he cried , that rulest in ida , most glorious in power , grant that he may return unharmed , with his armour and his comrades , fighters in close combat , stand firm : the achaeans have set themselves as a wall against me , but they will not listen to both the contending hosts , and will give victory to one or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night , and prepare our suppers . take your horses out of their chariots and perished by their own spears . the achaeans to their deep trench with hector in all his glory at their head . before him went the mules drawing the four - wheeled waggon , and driven by wise idaeus ; behind these were the horses , which the old man lashed with his whip and drove swiftly through the city , while his friends followed after , wailing and lamenting for him as though he were a god , apollo shouted to him with an awful voice and said , take heart , and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon 
