as a mountain falcon , swiftest of all birds , even so did these two run full speed three times round the city of priam . all the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a profound slumber . it hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer . the sun s glorious light had faded , they went home to bed , each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn lord of the whirlwind , who sits on ida and looks down over all troy , pray him to send his swift messenger on your right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to you of all birds , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , that you have ever been . then said jove , juno , be not so bitter . their honour shall not be equal , but of all that dwell in ilius , hector was dearest to the gods , and many were made sorrowful as they heard him . presently he reached the splendid palace of king priam , adorned with colonnades of hewn stone . in it there were fifty bedchambers all of hewn stone built near one another , where the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife fair cleopatra , who was daughter of marpessa daughter of euenus , and of ides the man then living . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their shields laid upon their shoulders drew close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
