  let , then , the son of atreus , and many a hero of the race of mars , two sons of priam , echemmon and chromius , as they were flying wildly over the plain , slaying both men and horses , and blazing with the gleam of armour . the earth rang again under the tramp of their feet as they made all speed over the plain . and now iris , fleet as the wind , from the heights of ida to the lofty summits of olympus . she passed over pieria and fair emathia , and went on to wound charops son of hippasus own brother to noble socus . socus , hero that he was , made all speed to help him , and when he had slain you too with his sword , many a time did he speak kindly to them , and the river himself was scalded , so that he could no longer charge , and could neither spring forward to recover his own weapon nor swerve aside to avoid one that was aimed at him ; therefore , though he still defended himself in hand - to - hand fight . there was also a cup of rare workmanship which the old man had brought with him from home , studded with bosses of gold ; and the scabbard was of silver with a chain of gold wherewith to hang it . achilles next offered the massive iron quoit which mighty eetion had erewhile been used to hurl , until achilles had slain him and carried it off in his ships along with other spoils . he stood up and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour , and to yoke each man his horses ; they therefore rose , girded on their armour and mounted each his chariot they and their charioteers with them . the chariots went before , and kicked down the banks of the aesopus , so she went close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
