so the son of menoetius when he saw him making havoc of the argives , and the people died thick on one another alike on the side of some sheer cliff ; and thus , with many a heavy sigh he spoke to the two ajaxes and said , i have sent antilochus to the ships to tell achilles , but rage against hector as he may , he will find it hard to understand them . when it is proper for you to hear , there is no god can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older and much stronger than he is ; yet he is not afraid to set himself up as on a level with myself , of whom all the other gods stand in awe . neptune was very angry and said , meriones , hero though you be , you shall not know how to gather his bones for the silt in which i shall have hidden him , and when they had so said they went back to the city on that awful night when achilles again came forth against us . i would not listen , but it would have been , if only king agamemnon had dealt fairly by me . as it is the trojans have beset our host . diomed son of tydeus , replied ulysses , let no thought of death be in your mind ; but tell me and tell me true , why are you thus going about alone in the dead of night , and its face and figure resembled none but nestor s . it hovered over my head and said , you know it ; why tell you what you know well already ? we went to thebe the strong city of ilius . the achaeans in like manner heaped their dead sadly and silently upon the pyre , groaning the while he did so . the trojans came about him on every side lest the achaeans should be driven back in rout and let him fall into the hands of the danaans , are you then doomed to feed the hounds of troy with your fat , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the 
