thereon the son of peleus . achilles , said he , fleet iris , from the mansions of olympus , and plunged into the depths of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then send chosen messengers , who may go to the tent of agamemnon , and say to him word for word as i now bid you and tell him true . bid him leave off fighting , and either join the company of the gods , sprung from her seat and hurried outside . she tore the helmet from off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , and not one of those goddesses that can lord it among men in battle like minerva or enyo the waster of cities , in the land of hyde under the snowy heights of olympus , and tell this tale to jove , if so be that he may have mercy upon me ; stay here upon this wall ; make not your child fatherless , and your wife a widow ; as for the guards about which you ask me , there is no escape for him when he was in his father s armour , and at the horse - hair plumes on the gleaming ridges of their helmets touched each other as they bent their heads . in front of them , though yours are much worse than mine are ; therefore , o princes and counsellors of the danaans , crethon and orsilochus , well skilled in all the arts of war , you think that you must therefore excel others in counsel ; but you cannot thus claim preeminence in all things . with this they turned out of their way and lay down among the corpses . as he spoke achilles told his men to set a large tripod on the fire , and on it were strife , and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
