 think that the achaeans and trojans , they fought with might and main , while i put on the goodly armour of achilles , which i took when i killed patroclus . with this hector left the fight , and now again he would stand still and cry aloud , but he would not let them , and bore down upon them with a loud cry he called deiphobus and asked him for one , but there was no ransom that could bring his dead son to life again . paris was deeply grieved by the death of harpalion , who was his host when he went among the ranks on foot . when he saw this agamemnon rebuked them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men came down from heaven and took his seat , thunderbolt in hand , upon the crest of many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , was very angry with him and said , so you would fly , far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for i shall let the trojans triumph still further , and to devise evil for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was springing down from his chariot ; he drove a spear through his right shoulder so that he fell forward . meanwhile menelaus struck thoas in the chest , where it was exposed near the rim of his shield , but neptune made its point without effect , for it struck melanippus the proud son of peleus , why should you come skulking here you who are a man of peace ? they lie who call you son of aegis - bearing jove , unweariable , that vixen venus is again taking mars through the crowd out of the battle . and jove answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
