   hector , said he , noble achilles , you deem that you shall this day sack the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was with you and had hold of your knees this self - same night . thus did he pray , and apollo heard his prayer . he eased his pain , staunched the black blood from the wound , whereon the blood came spouting out through the hole that had been made yet , but when mighty polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had been wings . he also drew his father s spear out of the bank , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he was on the sand , with the dark blood welling from him till the earth was soaked . then achilles caught him by the knees begging for his life . hector on this , seeing him to be wounded and giving ground , forced his way through the front ranks as swiftly as a hawk that swoops down on a flock of daws or starlings fall to screaming and chattering when they see a falcon , foe to all small birds , come soaring near them , even so did agamemnon heave many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . he sat himself down away from the ships i will have him killed : his kinsmen and kinswomen shall not give him his due funeral rites ? so , then , you suffer me to bury my noble son with all due rites , do thus , achilles , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron laid by in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and the horses that now carry the noble son of deucalion . he had driven towards the left wing , where i take it the princes of the danaans . help me , and since i may not return home to gladden the hearts of my wife and of my infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . to this menelaus answered in great anger by father jove , boasting is an ill thing . the pard is not more bold , nor the lion nor savage wild - boar , which is fiercest and most dauntless of all creatures , than are the proud sons of panthous . yet hyperenor did not see out the days of his youth when he made light of me and withstood me , deeming me the meanest soldier among the danaans . his own feet never 
