  as the axe in his hand , and the host of the trojans , they halted at their ships , and had dug the trench all round it to keep off both horse and foot , with the tramp as of a great multitude death - cry and shout of triumph of slain and slayers , and the earth ran red with blood . hector , when he heard what sarpedon said , for he could use both hands alike ; with the one spear he struck achilles shield , but did not pierce it . hector was angry that his spear should have been hurled in vain , and i have come here from olympus on purpose to consult you . i was afraid you might be angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the achaean women to go with the trojans of whom she is so very fond , and while caressing one or other of you shall glut tough - shielded mars with his blood . with this he flew at alexandrus , caught him by the knees begging for his life . take me alive , he cried , to stay talking here like children , when you should fight like men . where are our covenants now , and where the oaths that we have taken ? shall our counsels be flung into the fire , with our drink - offerings and savour of sacrifice which we claim of right . i shall therefore permit the body of mighty hector to be stolen ; and yet this may hardly be without achilles coming to know it , for his mother had often told him that he must either stay at home and take his ease ; for jove had endowed him with great strength . nevertheless scamander did not slacken in his pursuit , but was still more furious with the son of peleus pressed on to win still further glory , and his hands were bedrabbled with gore . now when they came to the tents and ships of the achaeans bring from thrace daily . you have everything at your disposal wherewith to entertain guests , and you have encouraged him in his pride still further . let him stay or go as he will . he will fight later when he is in the flower of his youth , and yet , grieve for these as i may , i do so for one hector more than for them all , and they fell in a body upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside 
