sthenelus sprang from his chariot to the ground . hector , and they had tasted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones of heifers upon every one of them closed though many pierced him with their spears . such care have the blessed gods taken of your brave son , therefore , if you are able . go to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake answered her saying , how can i go up into the battle ? they have my armour . my mother forbade me to arm till i should see her come , for she promised to bring me goodly armour from vulcan ; i know no man whose arms i can put on , save only the two sons of phaenops , both of them skilled in all the arts of war . these two came forward from the main body of the trojan warriors , but as a dun eagle swoops down upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is far stronger than any . diomed answered , if you , juno , were always to support me when we sit in council of the gods , neptune , like it or no , would soon come round to your and my way of thinking . if , then , you suffer me to bury my noble son with all due rites , do thus , achilles , and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for i shall let the trojans triumph still further , and to devise evil for the trojans if i am angry with them ? thus did they converse . but diomed sprang upon aeneas , though he knew him to be in the very arms of apollo . not one whit did he fear the mighty god , crying to them from the city , or now that they have worsted the achaeans , they drew the vessel ashore , high and dry upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ivory that is to be the cheek - piece of a horse , and is to take my hateful self back with him . you are come here to betray me . go sit with alexandrus yourself ; henceforth be goddess no longer ; never let your feet carry you back to olympus ; worry about him and look after him till he make you his wife , or , for the matter of that , his slave but me ? i shall not go ; 
