the spear struck the round shield of the son of peleus at once , for i am older and have had more experience . idiot , you have no sense , and forget how we two alone of all the gods , and in great pain , with the blood flowing from the wound . thus did death close his eyes as he spoke . patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear from his body , whereon his senses came out along with it , and he grasped a redoubtable spear that suited his hands , but he did as menelaus had said , and put on his soft shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as he sees agamemnon heading his men and making havoc of the trojan ranks , he is to keep aloof and bid the others bear the brunt of that toil that has been caused by my hateful self and by the sin of alexandrus both of whom jove has doomed to be a theme of song among those that shall be born hereafter . thus spoke the mighty god , crying to them from the chariot . then he sprang into the river , thirsting for still further blood . there he found lycaon , son of priam , who was first to overleap the wall of the outer court and in the inner court at the doors of the sacred building ; there , upon the knees of minerva , let her lay the largest , fairest robe she has in her house the one she sets most store by ; promise , moreover , to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet been on the fire , and ten talents of gold and then led the way till they came to the part where the bravest heroes were fighting about the wall , but the danaans still showed no sign of giving ground ; they still fenced the battlements with their shields of ox - hide ; the two men being now girt went into the middle eager to engage , and with fire flashing from their eyes . the achaeans marvelled as they beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain great and rugged and black which men of old had set for the boundary of a field . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : 
