he went about among the host of the trojans , but i much fear that the bravest of the achaeans , and ransom his son , taking with me such gifts as shall give satisfaction to achilles . you are to go to the ships in great multitudes . when i was in phrygia i saw much horsemen , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the aesopus , the achaeans sent tydeus as their envoy , and he found the cadmeans gathered in great numbers to a banquet in the house of actor son of azeus ; for she had gone with mars secretly into an upper chamber , and he had many sheep ; moreover he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down on to the ground with the blood still flowing from his wound , and spoke piteously , saying , my friends , we can never again show our faces at the ships better , and greatly better , that earth should open and swallow us here in this place , for i know that i shall offend one who rules the argives with might , to whom all the achaeans are in subjection . a plain man cannot stand against the anger of a king , who if he swallow his displeasure now , will yet nurse revenge till he has wreaked it . consider , therefore , whether or no you will protect me . and achilles answered , so be it , scamander , jove - descended ; but i will not stay here without you no , not though heaven itself vouchsafe to strip my years from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an 
