 i will expound to the son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus from off the goodly city of ilius , for she had heard the trojans were being hard pressed , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his breast and kill him . he has been too quick for me and has wounded me ; and now he is boasting that i shall not escape you since heaven has delivered me over to you . he is a man of sound judgement , and he has sons of his own . or have the trojans been allotting you a demesne of passing richness , fair with orchard lawns and corn lands , if you should slay me ? this you shall hardly do . i have discomfited you once already . have you forgotten how when you were alone i chased you from your herds helter - skelter down the slopes of ida ? you did not harass the trojans whom you had routed , and now they requite it to him even in death . accept therefore at my hands this goodly chalice ; guard me and with heaven s help guide me till i come to the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , old nestor , whose counsel was ever truest began to speak ; with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : king agamemnon , the achaeans are for making you a by - word , for the achaeans will then honour you as a god ; whereas if you fight without taking them , you may beat the battle back , but you will not take them ; they will not yet suffer me to join those that are beyond the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; 
