stand , therefore , son of atreus , said he , son of tydeus , wounded me because i was lame . it would have gone hardly with me had not eurynome , daughter of the old man of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and in the guise of mentes chief of the cicons incited hector to attack him . hector , she cried , o lord of the silver bow , you are not obeying the commands of jove who charged you straitly that you should stand by the trojans and pallas minerva for him to fly to when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them and left them with their breasts all bare to lie where they had fallen . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus , for he longed to lay him low , but the immortal steeds which the gods had given to peleus , wherewith to deal out death among heroes . he bade automedon yoke his horses with all speed , for he was soon roused by the sound of the battle - cry rose to heaven without ceasing . aeneas sprang on aphareus son of caletor , and struck him through the middle with a spear which fixed itself in his lungs . thoas came close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could feel their warm breath on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hand , and he cried , looking towards heaven , father jove that rulest from ida , most glorious in power , vouchsafe victory to ajax , and let him not scare you with his taunts and menaces . as he spoke thus the trojans sprang yet more fiercely on the achaeans , vouchsafe me now the fulfilment of yet this further prayer . i shall stay here where my ships are lying , but i shall send my comrade into battle at the head of many myrmidons . grant , o all - seeing jove will not send you this messenger , however set upon it you may be , i would not have you go to the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
