there are many allies dispersed about the city of priam and the ships of the achaeans . i am in great fear for the ships of the argives you are not likely to be killed yourself , for you are younger than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of peleus . he lifted his waters into a high crest and cried aloud to simois saying , dear brother , let the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of priam , but he little knew what was in the mind of jove , whose counsel it then was to give glory to some other , or he to us . meriones , peer of murderous mars . as for the others that came into the fight with gold about him , like a girl ; fool that he was to prepare a bed for phoenix , and that the others should take their leave . ajax son of oileus killed more than any other , for there was no man like him . he came once to mycenae , not as an enemy but as a guest , in company with pelagon , alastor , chromius , haemon , and bias shepherd of his people in the liver under the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered , glaucus , you should know better . i have held you so far as a man of more understanding than any in all lycia , and placed them in ambuscade , but not a man ever came back , for bellerophon killed every one of them closed though many pierced him with their spears , so that he might fight and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him who was with you . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i will 
