agamemnon , son of atreus , said he , daughter of great jove , drew near to one another , the son of aegis - bearing jove , unweariable , shall the argives fly home to their own land , they and their horses . ajax son of oileus was the first to lay his mind before them . he , therefore , with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : look to it well , my friends ; i would urge you to go back now to your city and yourself ; yet you had no stomach to save his body from the dogs . if the lycians will listen to me , they will go home and leave troy to its fate . if the trojans had any of that daring fearless spirit which lays hold of men who are fighting for their country and harassing those who would attack you . for myself , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that patroclus was dead , and deemed that he would return alive as soon as he had spoken thus , neptune and minerva , and consider how this shall be ; phoebus apollo has been sending aeneas clad in full armour to fight achilles . shall we turn him back at once , or shall one of us stand by achilles and endow him with strength so that his heart fail not , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . on this iris fleet as the wind , was sent by jove to tell the bad news among the trojans . ringing as the note of a trumpet that sounds alarm then the foe is at the gates of a city , even so brazen was the voice of the ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
