son of tydeus , said he , noble son of telamon , but it seems that i have not killed him . with this he drew his bronze spear out of the body , but could not strip him of the rest of his armour for the rain of darts that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of deep - flowing oceanus , from whom all we gods proceed ) and mother tethys : they received me in their house , for the wife also of promachus son of alegenor will never be gladdened by the coming of her dear husband when we argives return with our ships from troy . as he spoke he began stripping the spoils from the son of paeon , but alexandrus husband of lovely helen aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going , and we will not be hard upon you about gifts of wooing . with this idomeneus began dragging him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long they fought by the scaean gates , in doubt whether to drive out again and go on fighting , or to call the army inside the gates . as he was thus speaking a bird flew by upon his right hand , fraught with the death of heroes . automedon and alcimus busied themselves with the harnessing of his horses ; but even so he stays not the murderous might of hector . so long as this man was at enmity with agamemnon the achaeans were easier to deal with , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope of taking them ; but now i have heard the goddess and seen her face to face , that i may speak even as i am , on the sad threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom 
