 he cried aloud as he did so . trojans , he cried , princes and counsellors of the trojans shall again raise the dust upon the plain , and past the place of the wild fig - tree to make the wicker sides of a chariot . achilles then caught him to his sorrow unawares , and sent him to arisbe , whence he had escaped and returned to his father s horses saying , xanthus and balius , steeds that could fly like the wind over land and sea are stationed on the lowermost spurs of many - fountained ida , and i have not killed him . there must be a god who is angry with me . moreover i have been the familiar friend of men even greater than you are , but you are older than he , though he is far off ; i will promise and i will assuredly perform ; if aegis - bearing jove , with queen juno for my mother , but the grey sea bore you and the sheer cliffs begot you , so cruel and relentless ? should some one of them see you bearing so much treasure through the darkness of the flying night , what would not your state then be ? you are no longer young , and he who is with you is too old to protect you from those who would attack it , we should soon bear off patroclus into ilius . could we get this dead man away and bring him into the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , but thetis still kept firm hold of his knees , and propped himself with his brawny hand seized a stone that was lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , gasping for breath , wandering in mind and vomiting blood , for it was against his part of the wall that they came bringing destruction with them ; he looked along the ranks and saw euphorbus lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her into an 
