antilochus , said he , you are now going after the horses of the noble son of peleus . now , however , he kept trying to break the ranks of the enemy wherever he could see them thickest , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through the wall and fight at the ships . cebriones was also joined with them as third in command , for with him was leonteus , of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his feet , was rushing about among front ranks until he lost his life . hector soon marked the havoc diomed and ulysses were making , and bore down upon them with a loud cry called on the achaean heroes . on this even those who as yet had stayed always at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . but when fair rosy - fingered morn appeared . then king agamemnon took the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled in all kinds of useful arts even so level was the issue of the fight between us . it is better for both of us that he should have curbed his anger and kept out of my reach , for i should have had much trouble with him . take , then , your house fared so well at the hands of jove . remember this . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , though i have meat and drink in my tents , yet will i fast for sorrow . grief greater than this i could not know , not even though you had adrestus s horse arion behind you a horse which is of divine race or those of laomedon , which are the noblest in this country . when nestor had made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an 
