and the son of saturn , and invited the princes and elders of his host . he poised his spear as he spoke and drove the horses over the ditch , while the other achaeans followed him gladly . when they reached troy and the place where its two flowing streams simois and scamander meet , there juno stayed them and took them from the chariot . hector was greatly grieved at the loss of her wedded lord , diomed the bravest of the myrmidons should fall before the trojans , and came to me of his own accord , for he knew how busy his brother then was . they stood round the bull with the barley - meal , they drew back the bolts to open the gates , and his brother was persuaded by him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , slaying both men and horses . hector did not yet know what ajax was doing , for he was overcome by the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he had done so . now that my folly has destroyed the host , i dare not look trojan men and trojan women in the face , lest a worse man should say , hector has ruined us by his self - confidence . surely it would be better for me , should i lose you , to lie dead and buried , for i shall let the trojans triumph still further , and to devise evil for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may advise together whether to fall now upon the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . thus spoke the goddess , and helen s heart yearned after her former husband , her city , and her parents . she threw a white mantle over her head , and hurried from her room , weeping as she went , not alone , but attended by two of her handmaids , aethrae , daughter of pittheus , and clymene . and straightway they were at the scaean gates . then phoebus apollo said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all us others ? jove would instantly leave 
