diomed , son of tydeus , who was the son of peleus , mightiest of all mankind . he was the son of jove . on this the mighty monster hobbled off from his anvil , his thin legs plying lustily under him . mars of gleaming helmet joined the trojans , and learn whether they will be in a blaze . and alexandrus answered , hector , why have you left the battle to come hither ? i fear that what dread hector said will come true , when he vaunted among the trojans saying , trojans , lycians , and dardanians good in close fight , for they had sacrificed a great ox , and were busy cutting him up , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also two cities , fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , would that i were still young and strong as when the pylians and arcadians were gathered in fight by the rapid river celadon under the walls of troy by the flying arrows of apollo ; would that hector , the best man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots , in full array , and with them the two moliones in their armour , till we had brought our horses to buprasium , rich in wheat , and to the house of her mighty father . thick as the chill snow - flakes shed from the hand of jove has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he gave the urn over to nestor , who received it gladly . but menelaus got up in a rage , furious about the payment he had promised us , and yet withheld ; in spite of all this , you are now going after the horses of the son of neleus . when they heard jove thunder they flung themselves yet more fiercely on the achaeans , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it 
