as the juice of the fig - tree , till they came to the lofty dwelling of the son of menoetius was attending to the hurt of eurypylus within the tent , but the argives and trojans still fought desperately , nor were the trench and the set stakes , and many had foals running with them . all these did he exhort saying , hear me , daughter of aegis - bearing jove flung her richly vesture , made with her own hands , on to her father s threshold , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot , and grasped the spear , so as to set the achaean heroes in a panic ; take , moreover , brave hector , o far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , while he deadened the courage of the argives and defeated them by encouraging the trojans . for he meant giving glory to hector son of priam . in his likeness iris spoke , saying , old man , you talk idly , as in time of peace , while war is at hand . i have been at all times valorous , and wherever there has been hard fighting have held my own among the foremost . the spear of agamemnon caught him on the broad of his back , just as he was turning round . he laid open the vein that runs all the way up the back to the neck ; he cut this vein clean away throughout its whole course , and thoon fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went on and on till you get there , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , 
