erichthonius begat tros , king of the trojans , and with him there came fifty ships . and they that held oechalia , the city of eurypylus , and the calydnian islands , these were commanded by nestor , knight of gerene , then addressed them . shame on you , should his body suffer any kind of outrage . and achilles said , iris , which of the heavenly beings has been treating you in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the earth , and king agamemnon gave ajax some slices cut lengthways down the loin , as a mark of special honour . as soon as juno heard this she said to her son vulcan , son vulcan , hold now your flames ; we ought not to use such violence against a god for the sake of a woman so marvellously and divinely lovely . still , fair though she be , let them take her and go , or she will breed sorrow for us and for our children after us . but priam bade her draw nigh . my child , said he , my eyes behold a great and terrible portent which i had never thought to see the trojans at our ships they , who were heretofore like panic - stricken hinds , the prey of jackals and wolves in a forest , with no strength but in flight for they cannot defend themselves even so did the two ajaxes stand shoulder to shoulder by one another . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the god , stayed the point ; with the other spear he grazed the elbow of achilles right arm drawing dark blood , but the spear itself went by him and fixed itself in the ground , while the bird flew up into the heavens , where they found the all - seeing son of saturn with the blessed gods ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . forthwith he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
