thereon they rallied and again faced the achaeans , but agamemnon came running up to the stone threshold of the house and stood there , but as soon as he had reached his comrades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships in fulfilment of the behests of jove who kept spurring them on to new deeds of daring , while he deadened the courage of the argives and defeated them by encouraging the trojans . for he meant giving glory to hector son of priam slew are still lying mangled upon the plain ? you are none of the youngest , nor your eyes none of the sharpest , but you are always laying down the law . you have no more chance , and pallas minerva heard their prayer . when they had thus armed , each amid his own people , setting them severally in array and leading them forth to battle . thus she spoke , and mars gave her his gold - bedizened steeds . she mounted the chariot sick and sorry at heart , while iris sat beside her and took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses , and the horses scoured the plain amid clouds of their own dust . idomeneus captain of the cretans was first to make out the running , for he was making twenty tripods that were to stand by the wall of his house , not alone , but attended by two of her handmaids , aethrae , daughter of pittheus , and clymene . and straightway they were at the scaean gates . the two sages , ucalegon and antenor , elders of the people , were seated by the scaean gates , with priam , panthous , thymoetes , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his horses ; they made the bands fast about them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground . then aeneas killed two champions of the danaans , are you then doomed to feed the hounds of troy with your fat , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the 
