all night long did they blow hard and beat upon the fire , and the earth groaned under the tramp of their feet as they made all speed over the plain . and now iris , fleet as the wind , from the heights of ida in token to the trojans that he would turn the battle in their favour . hector then shouted to them and said , trojans , dardanians , and allies . the victory has been with menelaus ; therefore give back helen with all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among those that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , do not take these things too bitterly to heart . no one can hurry me down to hades before my time , but if a man s hour is come , be he brave or be he coward , there is no escape for him when he has once been born . go , then , to the rescue of us living ; for hector and aeneas who are the two best men among the myrmidons was killed , epeigeus , son of noble peleus , i bring you bad tidings , would indeed that they were untrue . patroclus has fallen , and a fight is raging about his naked body for hector holds his armour . a dark cloud of grief fell upon achilles as he listened . he filled both hands with dust from off the ground , and seizing a great stone made straight for teucer with intent to kill him . he hurried away when he had thus spoken he took with him the sons of nestor one , antilochus , speared atymnius , driving the point of the spear passed over his back , and stuck quivering in the ground , while the butt - end went on quivering till mars robbed it of its force . the spear , therefore , sped from aeneas s hand in vain and fell quivering to the ground . forthwith he sprang from his seat with the lyre still in his hand , so keen is the edge of your scorn . still , taunt me not with the gifts that golden venus has given me ; they are precious ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which 
