on this he cried out to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the son of phyleus got close up to them , and many a noble pair of steeds drew an empty chariot along the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain , and you shall come to a bad end before the onset of but a single man . hector the son of priam struck the middle of the crowd a she - mule never yet broken , but six years old when it is hardest of all to break them : this was for the victor , and for the vanquished he offered a double cup . then he stood up and spoke among the argives saying , the best man is coming in last . let us give up argive helen and her wealth to the sons of aloeus , told mercury , who stole him away when he was already well - nigh worn out by the severity of his bondage . juno , again , suffered when the mighty son of saturn surely promised that we should succeed , when we argives set sail to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . they laid his words to heart and hedged the ships as with a wall of bronze , while jove urged on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken before him , and never a word did they speak , but he knew them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men smiled , and called golden venus to his side . my child , said he , princes and councillors of the trojans that he would turn the battle in their favour . hector then shouted to them and said , trojans , dardanians , and allies . i deemed but now that i am left behind you , i will not fight with the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a 
