when he had thus spoken he went his way to the ships . the rest of the trojans and the ships of the achaeans , but waves do not thunder on the shore more loudly when driven before the blast of the south wind and break on some lofty headland , dashing against it and buffeting it without ceasing , as the storms from every quarter drive them , even so did yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his round shield and his spear in front of him . i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich indeed both in land and gold is he that has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not have my own work wasted . i too am a god and of the same race and country , but jove was elder born and knew more , therefore neptune feared to defend the argives openly , but in the likeness of periphas son of epytus , an attendant who had grown old in the service of aeneas aged father , and was at all times devoted to him . in his likeness iris spoke , saying , old man , your heart is of iron ; you rest not one moment from your labours . are there no younger men among the achaeans who could go about to rouse the princes ? there is no tiring you . and nestor knight of gerene did as idomeneus had counselled ; he at once mounted his chariot , and his servant that was the city s herald with him . then she went back to olympus among the other gods , and to the olenian rock , with the hill that is called alision , at which point minerva turned the people back . there i slew the last man and left him ; then the achaeans drove their horses back from buprasium to pylos and gave thanks to jove among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the 
