ulysses , he cried , son of atreus , he said , take me to the ships . on this he cried out to the two ajaxes and the son of lycaon saw him scouring the plain and driving the trojans pell - mell before him , he aimed an arrow and hit the front part of his cuirass near the shoulder : the arrow went right through the fleshy part of the neck , and brought him out of the battle . when hector saw him he said to aeneas , aeneas , counsellor of the mail - clad trojans , i see the steeds of the fleet son of peleus . achilles will then send his comrade patroclus into battle , and hector will kill him in front of the wall in order to support it ; when they had built it to protect their ships , and the host was cramped for space , therefore they had placed the ships in rows one behind the other , and jove from his seat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was breathing hard , for by the counsel of minerva an evil dream , the seed of oeneus , hovered that night over his head . meanwhile ulysses untied the horses , made them fast one to another and drove them off , striking them with his bow and his quiver upon his shoulder , and as an overall he wore the skin of a huge tawny lion over his shoulders a skin that reached his feet and took his spear in his hand . neither could menelaus sleep , for he , too , boded ill for the argives who for his sake had sailed from far over the seas to fight the trojans ; now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
