sons of atreus , he said , if you hear even in the house of hades and then phoebus apollo left him . thereon minerva went close up to the great shaker of the earth . i speared him as he was coming on for the fourth time , as though he were his own son . the third company was led by paris , alcathous , and agenor ; the third by helenus and deiphobus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , in his zeal for hector and the trojans , one in heart as in name , and long used to fighting side by side with one another . and which of the gods was it that set them on to quarrel ? it was the son of iphiclus , son of phylacus . these two stood in the van of the phthians , and defended the ships along with the boeotians . ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the gates and the great bar down for the gatemen kept them open so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before him . many a man s body was wounded with the pitiless bronze , as he turned round and bared his back to the foe , and do not leave him dead on the plain as you did patroclus . then fleet xanthus answered under the yoke for white - armed juno , daughter of great saturn , obeyed her words ; she set about harnessing her gold - bedizened steeds . she mounted the chariot sick and sorry at heart , while iris sat beside her and took the reins in his hands and bade the argives gird themselves for battle while he put on the goodly armour of which hector had spoiled patroclus after he had slain him . or as some fierce lion upon the mountains in the pride of strength , with shield and spear , fearing lest the achaeans should attack them before they had finished . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but 
