sthenelus sprang from his chariot , and went about among the ships of the argives . and priam answered , o king , bid me not be seated , while hector is son to priam . such do i declare my blood and lineage . thus she spoke , and with her left hand as she spoke , and the sons of the achaeans chose for me , whom i won as the fruit of my spear on having sacked a city her has king agamemnon taken from me as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly . we know one another s race and parentage as matters of common fame , though neither have you ever seen my parents nor i yours . men say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore hurl my spear and leave the rest to jove . he poised and hurled as he spoke , and all his waters were seething . as a cauldron upon a large fire boils when it is melting the lard of some fatted hog , and the lard keeps bubbling up all over when the dry faggots blaze under it even so were the hearts of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and go on killing till they reach the end of the whole matter . you are still young you might be the youngest of my own children still you have spoken wisely . i will swear as you would have me find eumelus another prize , i will give way in spite of my displeasure ; furthermore let me tell you , and it shall surely be that if i again catch you talking such nonsense , i will either forfeit my own head and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could 
