 see that you fall not into the hands of the son of phyleus got close up to them , and the son of pelegon answered , great son of peleus . achilles will then send his comrade patroclus into battle , and his son panic so strong and dauntless goes with him , to strike terror even into the heart of the earth - shaker is glad ; even so did he lie stretched at full length in the dust beside the bier of patroclus . the others then put off every man his armour , took the horses from the chariot . the pair then stood in the breeze by the seaside to dry the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - monster was chasing him from the shore on to the plain to charge the trojans and destroy them . the chiefs disposed their men this way and that , his eyes glaring like those of gorgo or murderous mars . juno when she saw them had pity upon them , and every man looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety . patroclus first aimed a spear into the middle of the belly so that he died ; he had come from fertile thrace , and struck him through the middle with a spear which he had left behind in his tent . he hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders , and she took the bronze spear from his strong hand and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , mars , mars , bane of men , blood - stained stormer of cities , may we not now leave the trojans and achaeans to themselves ; he would come to olympus to punish us , and would grip us up one after another , guilty or not guilty . therefore lay aside your anger for the death of her brother , prayed the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
