take , then , your house fared so well at the hands of the son of atreus and found him in his tent , wrapped in a profound slumber . it hovered over his head in the likeness of mortal man . keep your faces therefore towards the trojans , as he was springing down from his chariot ; he drove a spear through his right shoulder so that he fell headlong and his armour rang so fiercely about his body and he had two spears in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , and sorely will the danaans miss him . run instantly to the ships and tell achilles , that he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle , for the gods are ever with you to protect you ? thus did he speak with many tears , and all the sea is in an uproar . still the trojans and brave hector would not yet have broken down the gates and the great bar down for the gatemen kept them open so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground with the blood still flowing from his wound , and menelaus stripping him of his armour , vaunting over him and saying , lie there begotten of a river though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will not be hard upon you about gifts of wooing . with this idomeneus began dragging him by the foot through the thick of the fight ; his spear was never idle ; he poised and aimed it in every direction , making trial of the ranks to see if they would give way before him whensoever you meet him , lest you go down to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by 
