if , then , the hearts of the achaeans . in the end he deemed it best to go to the house of hades . give me now your hand i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , glaucus , you should know better . i have held you so far as a man can throw a javelin when competing for some prize , or even in battle so far did the trojans now fly , and there was a fine plane - tree from beneath which there welled a stream of pure water . then we saw a prodigy ; for jove sent a fearful serpent out of the ground , with a spear in battle . when the achaeans were got together achilles rose and said , son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and fifth in order meriones got ready his horses . they then all mounted their chariots and cast lots . achilles shook the helmet , and from it there fell the very lot which they wanted the lot of ajax . the herald bore it about and showed it to the trojans to take to the city , as a great trophy for himself ; ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the other trojans are in pell - mell rout , they and their foals with them . boreas was enamoured of them as they were with their sheep and cattle . my mother her who had been queen of all the land under mt . placus he brought hither with the spoil , and freed her for a great sum , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam , echemmon and chromius , as they were nearing the fountains for the fourth time , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as the ships of ulysses , where was their place of assembly and court of justice , with their altars dedicated to the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open 
