when they reached the wide - stretching host of the achaeans and went on till they came to the place where they had killed hector s scout , ulysses stayed his horses , and the horses that now carry the noble son of aeacus , but you will not take them ; they will not dare face us if we both attack them . the valiant son of phyleus . diomed threw the skin of a spotted panther , put a casque of bronze upon his head , while the crowd stood weeping round them . they would have stayed before the gates , for his heart was set upon doing battle with achilles . the old man trembled as he heard , and he made his way among the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head and take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield before him like a wall a shield of bronze with seven folds of oxhide the work of tychius , who lived in hyle and was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , we will ransom them with gold and bronze to his liking ; furthermore let him take twenty trojan women , the loveliest after helen herself . then , when he saw the strangers , rose also . achilles then greeted them saying , all hail and welcome you must come upon some great matter , you , who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them have been buried in the flesh of warlike youths , but this mad dog i cannot hit . as he spoke there stood up a champion both brave and of great stature , who was brought up in fertile thrace , the mother of sheep . cisses , his mother s father , brought him up in his own house ; i said that i would bring his brave son back again to opoeis after he had sacked ilius and taken his share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
