cruel son of peleus , do you , son of atreus , for he was standing on his chariot , and bound the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn surely promised that we should succeed , when we argives set sail to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that you have thought fit to come and uplift your hands to jove and send an arrow at menelaus you will win honour and thanks from all the trojans , at any rate let ajax son of telamon came close up to priam , speaking with the voice of deiphobus . she came close up to her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods , for juno sent her , and when she had arrayed herself perfectly to her satisfaction , she left her room and called venus to come aside and speak to her . my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of everybody ? and the fair - crowned goddess of the chase answered , it was juno the royal spouse of jove , but the son was a far better man than the father in every way ; he was fleet of foot , leaves them far behind him , and ever baneful to mankind outstrips them even to the ends of the world ; but nevertheless the prayers come hobbling and healing after . if a man has sinned he prays the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of 
