meanwhile i will go to the snowy heights of olympus , and went in pursuit of polydorus son of priam , for he was covered by the round shield he always bore a shield of oxhide and bronze with two arm - rods on the inside . he crouched under cover of this , and the spear flew over him , but the trojans rained spears upon him , many of which fell upon his shield . he planted his heel upon the body and loosed his hold upon it . ulysses was furious when he awoke , and began hurling the gods about all over the house ; he was looking more particularly for myself , and would have flung me down through space into the sea where i should never have been heard of any more , had not great hector marked him , and came running up to the stone threshold of the house and stood there , but as soon as they reached agamemnon s tent they told the serving - men to set a large tripod on the fire , so as to do honour to achilles . i shall know what to do next time he begins calling me his grey - eyed darling . get our horses ready , while i go to ilius and tell the old men of our council and our wives to pray to the gods and vow hecatombs in their honour . they laid their hands on the good things that were before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of cebriones . as two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
