automedon , said he , to the tent of achilles son of aeacus . when he had found the brave son of menoetius has fallen through his own daring and yet i bade him return to the ships as soon as he had reached his comrades . the trojans , on the other side the wall away from the ships , come back again . though juno s thundering husband should put triumph within your reach , do not fight him ; but should jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and hem him in towards the ships away from the trojan camp , to prevent his getting back to the town . with this they turned out of their way and lay down among the corpses . dolon suspected nothing and soon passed them , but when he had got about as far as a man can throw a javelin when competing for some prize , or even in battle so far did the trojans now retreat before the achaeans . glaucus , captain of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of peleus . fool that he was , made all speed to help him , and when he heard their footsteps he stood still , for he made sure they were friends from the trojan camp , to prevent his getting back to the town . with this they turned out of their way and lay down among the corpses . as he spoke there stood up a champion both brave and of great stature , who was brought up in fertile thrace , the mother of sheep . cisses , his mother s father , brought him up in his own house when you were a child , bastard though you were . cover him with glory though he is far off ; i will promise and i will assuredly perform ; if aegis - bearing jove , sat down , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached the river xanthus , where i have left my wife , my infant son , let me die within the walls of your city . hector made him no answer , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man down , will be able to get home by land ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows would serve you in little stead . vain is your boast in that you have scratched the sole of my foot . i care no more than if a girl or some silly boy had hit me . a worthless coward can inflict but a light wound ; when i wound a man though i but graze his skin it is another matter 
