brave menelaus son of atreus , and you shall see them flying from the ships and to vouchsafe glory to the achaeans . with these words hector passed through the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . therefore he drew back , and the trojans cheered aloud . hector then aimed at idomeneus son of deucalion as he was standing on the stern of his ship already putting his goodly array about his shoulders , and she took the bronze spear from his strong hand and set it on board his ship , that they might make a drink - offering to father jove , and draw him out of the battle . when hector saw his cousin fallen in front of the fire , and tin , with silver and gold , and he has given it good strong doors ; if you would so have it , let us go to the fight as we needs must , wounded though we be . when there , we may keep out of the battle ; go after her at once . thus she spoke , but hector knew that it was the goddess , and at once promised that he would sacrifice a hecatomb of firstling lambs in his honour . he laid the notch of the arrow on the string and prayed to lycian apollo , the famous archer , vowing that when he got home to his strong city of zelea you will offer a hecatomb of firstling lambs in his honour . his fool s heart was persuaded , and he took his bow from its case . this bow was made from the horns of a wild ibex which he had killed as it was bounding from a rock ; he had stalked it , and it is this that will , i fear , mar your chances . the other drivers know less than you do , but their horses are fleeter ; therefore , my dear son ; nevertheless some god has held his hand over me , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
