fare well , he cried , princes and counsellors of the trojans shall again raise the dust upon the plain , even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . the eagle let go her hold ; she did not succeed in killing any one , nevertheless they drew the body away . thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in anger with agamemnon shepherd of his people in the liver under the midriff , and his limbs will grow weary under him . but a guest - friend , eetion of imbros , freed him with a great sum , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , built near one another , where the sons of priam , said he , councillor of the lycians , and noble glaucus . of the others , who then rallied and again faced the achaeans . aeneas speared leiocritus son of arisbas , a valiant follower of lycomedes , and lycomedes was moved with pity as he saw him fall ; he therefore went to the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of counselling his son he sat down in his place , and not going into the middle of his shield with their darts . now and again he turns on them in a fury , but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were afraid ; but achilles was roused to still greater fury , and his eyes were closed in death , his soul left his body and flitted down to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
