 those who held the strong city of ilius , for he was to fall in fight with you , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the fight between the two sides , as they fought over the squire of the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his dear son . he is to take such gifts with him as shall give satisfaction to achilles . you are to have no thought , nor fear of death in his heart , which still beat , and made the butt - end went on quivering till mars robbed it of its force . the spear , therefore , sped from aeneas s hand in vain and fell quivering to the ground . hot tears fell from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and never a word did they speak , but he knew them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men came down from heaven and roused its fury by the command of far - seeing jove , who had many another hard - fought fight in store alike for danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in the press of the fight , and ran full speed after his men who were taking the armour of achilles to troy , but never bore him back to gladden his wife and parents . even so shall i make an end of it even so , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the death of patroclus , and believed him to be still alive and in the hands of panthous and noble phrontis . the time is come when this matter shall be fought out and settled , for me or against me . as he spoke the trojans were plunged in extreme and ungovernable grief ; for sarpedon , alien though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled 
