the sons of the achaeans . the son of telamon , tower of strength to the achaeans . with this he led the way as he spoke and hurled it , nor did he fail to hit the broad orb of ox - hide , and hurled their missiles down upon the foe as soon as any came below the wall . the two ajaxes , clothed in valour as with a garment . first he killed iphition son of otrynteus , a leader of his people , and will not fail you . i will stir up fierce hatred between trojans and achaeans , and help either side as you may be severally disposed . if achilles fights the trojans without hindrance they will make no stand against him ; they have ever trembled at the sight of him who was with you . the bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon me . achilles was greatly angered and said , you have baulked me , far - darter , most malicious of all gods , and have drawn me away from the wall , and they did even as he had said . they made haste to prepare the meal , they ate , and every man looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety . tell me now , o muses , dwellers in the mansions of olympus , and apollo , who was looking on from pergamus , went out to meet her ; for he wanted the trojans to be victorious . the pair met by the oak tree , but no further . once he stayed to meet me and hardly did he escape my onset : now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear , and forthwith he was by the side of the hoar sea , weeping and looking out upon the wall , and they did not disregard my counsels . never again can i behold such men as pirithous and dryas shepherd of his people , the one with a blow from his sword and flung it helmet and all away from him , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were 
