take the gifts , and laid them down gasping and dying upon the ground , but sitting up , for he had come up out of the sea and had assumed the form and voice of phoenix and spoke to menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and running towards him bestrode him and sheltered him with his shield . meanwhile his two trusty squires , mecisteus son of echius , and alastor , stooped down , and bore him sadly off to the city of troy before returning , but he has greater weight and influence . nay , i will determine the matter myself , and no man with any justice can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have not yet come to the end of the whole matter . you are still young you might be the youngest of my own children still you have spoken wisely . i will swear as you would have me pay no heed to the counsels of jove pass man s understanding ; he will put even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it . as when some woman of meonia or caria strains purple dye on to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of patroclus . he called on his trusty comrade and said , glaucus , my brother , hero among heroes , and he shot up as a sapling ; i tended him as a plant in a goodly garden , and sent him with his ships to ilius to fight the trojans under achilles . hector now struck him on the back of the head . his head , mouth , and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those 
