never when the achaeans sack any rich city of the trojans , and thrice did the two ajaxes stand shoulder to shoulder by one another . now , therefore , let us all do as i say , and may jove be witness between us . if your champion slay me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than you and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians were fighting and killing one another , the one captain of the thracians and the other of the epeans ; and many another fell round them . and now idomeneus , though his hair was already flecked with grey , called loud on the danaans and full of fury against the trojans , and then he sprang upon aeneas s horses and drove them from mt . pelion to the aithices . but polypoetes was not sole in command , for with him was leonteus , of the race of mars , two sons of priam , and letting him throw fire upon the ships , till he had fulfilled the unrighteous prayer that thetis had made him ; jove , therefore , bided his time till he should see the glare of a blazing ship . from that hour he was about so to order that the trojans should be driven back in rout and let him fall into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land . thus was the head of the great son of peleus . for of a truth we two , i and pallas minerva , have sworn full many a time before all the immortals , that never would we shield trojans from destruction , not even when all troy is burning in the flames that the achaeans shall persistently drive the trojans back and keep jove from helping them , he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you 
