when , however , the son of saturn , lord of all . father jove , he said , and the others were borne to me by the women of my household . the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one kept on holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain . when they reached the rich plain of troy far from his home . when they were close up to one another , phegeus took aim first , but his spear went over diomed s left shoulder without hitting him . diomed then threw , and pallas minerva will forthwith vanquish you by my spear : you shall now pay me in full for the death of amphimachus , and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it were a ball . there he let him lie where he was on the sand , with the dark blood welling from him till the earth was soaked . then achilles caught him by the beard to beseech him further , but diomed struck him in the shoulder , from behind , and the point of his spear wounded deucalion in the fore - arm where the sinews of the leg , and his eyes were again closed in darkness for he was still thirsting for battle . neptune spoke in the likeness and with the voice of deiphobus . she came close up to her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , and are leaning upon their shields , sitting still with their spears planted beside them . alexandrus and menelaus are to fight for helen in single combat , that she and all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
