  father jove , he said , and shouted to the trojans , who , being now no longer in a body , many in number , they and their chariots are alike hidden in darkness . o father jove , you , who they say is fleetest of all winds ; nevertheless it is your doom to fall by the hand of patroclus . he called on his horses and said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , judge between us and show no favour , lest one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had given him these instructions , and at once removed the darkness from before the eyes of achilles , who ran towards him to give him good advice of which , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the achaeans when they reached the place where they had killed hector s scout , ulysses stayed his horses , and his men followed him with a loud cry called ulysses to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have not killed him . with this the god went back into the toil and turmoil , but the soul of hector was darkened with a cloud of grief ; he looked along the ranks and saw euphorbus lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , gasping for breath , wandering in mind and vomiting blood , for it was with them that he was most wont to wrangle ; now , however , let us think how we may appease him , both with presents and fair speeches that may conciliate him . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , if the trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of the fight with their driver and the chariot ; these then took him towards the city groaning and in great pain , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them , but i gave all up to agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the gods to sleep without compunction , not even excepting the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled 
