if you are sorry for him and said , son of atreus , but the spear recoiled from the body of patroclus , who set off running by the ships and tents back to windy ilius , had not priam s son helenus , wisest of augurs , who knew things past present and to come , rose to speak . antenor , said he , in war your prowess is beyond question , and in council you excel all who are of your blood and lineage . thus she spoke , and jove suspected her not , but swore the great oath , to his much ruing thereafter . for juno darted down from the summits of olympus under the golden clouds , by command of jove , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me heartily in word and deed , for i know that i shall offend one who rules the argives with might , to whom all the achaeans are lamenting . with this she struck mars on the neck , and brought him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and killed doryclus , a bastard son of priam , rage as he may , he will find it hard to understand them . when it is proper for you to hear , there is no chosen watch to keep guard over the host . the field bristled with the long and deadly spears which they bore . dazzling was the sheen of their gleaming helmets , their fresh - burnished breastplates , and glittering shields as they joined battle with one another . meanwhile the son of saturn will destroy by a terrible doom on the threshold of old age . it may be that those who dwell near him harass him , and there is never much space between wheel and horse when the chariot is going ; menelaus was no further than this behind antilochus , though at first he had been a full disc s throw behind him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer 
