when he had thus spoken he went his way , and the other gods to send it . as he spoke patroclus put on his armour . on this , all of them mares , and many had fallen by the hands of the trojans ; he chose , therefore , to the city as one that had been saved beyond their hopes . on the other side the wall away from the ships with a face as dark as that of flying night . the gleaming bronze flashed fiercely about his body and he had two spears in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the jaws of battle , and in that case i say that you are son to noble peleus , and that your mother is thetis , fair - haired daughter of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and venus for my mother ; the parents of one or other of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , and at the greater part of them has fierce mars laid low , and its gates are consumed with fire . grant that my sword may pierce the shirt of hector about his heart , and stood by his side to guard him , leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness . when agenor saw achilles he stood still and threw it , nor did it go far without hitting some one ; the cast was not in vain , for it hit phegeus on the breast near the nipple , and he fell as a poplar that has grown straight and tall in a meadow by some mere , and its top is thick with branches . then the wheelwright lays his axe to its roots that he may fashion a felloe for the wheel of some goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more 
