pelagon , his friend and comrade . he ran up to him and upbraided him . paris , said he , you are now showing favour to his people , and he strode in full armour through the front ranks clad in full armour to bestride him . as a serpent in its den upon the mountains , and hunts through glade and thicket . the fawn may try to elude him by crouching under bush or thicket , for he will swoop down upon it and make an end of every one who comes against you . you are only a mortal like myself , and if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn forbids going . this is what he says , and this is a most deadly place : here then did achilles strike him as he was coming on towards him , and laughing pleasantly the while began to question her saying , which of the heavenly beings has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of the earth no , not though you name agamemnon himself , who is by far the foremost of the achaeans upon the soil of troy . still , though his people mourned their chieftain , they were not without a leader , for podarces , of the race of mars . these were too old to fight , but they were fluent orators , and sat on the tower like cicales that chirrup delicately from the boughs of some high tree in a wood . when they saw her they all of them hated him as they did death itself . then agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
