thus spoke the son of atreus , said he , daughter of aegis - bearing jove , hit him with an arrow to our dismay , and to his own great glory had not jove s daughter venus , whereas achilles is son to a goddess of inferior rank . venus is child to jove , while thetis is but daughter to the old man of the sea . the gods rose from their seats , before the coming of the achaeans the message that i have sent them ; tell them to find some other plan for the saving of our ships ; if you fight not with might and main . thereon polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , and the other to the other , and jove from his seat on high was in command over them all . meanwhile the whole plain was dried and the dead bodies were consumed . then he turned round and bared his back to the foe , and do not leave him dead on the plain as you did patroclus . then fleet xanthus answered under the yoke for white - armed juno , daughter of great eetion who ruled in thebe under the wooded slopes of mt . placus , and was king of the cilicians . he slew him , but did not draw blood , for the cuirass beneath the shield protected him ; thereon the son of peleus now brought out the prizes for the third contest and showed them to the argives . these were for the painful art of boxing . he brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , but i have never heard one word of insult or unkindness from you . when another would chide with me , as it might be one of your brothers or sisters or of your brothers wives , nor yet to the temple of minerva , lovely theano , daughter of cisseus and wife of antenor , opened the doors , for the trojans were not driven back . as the breezes sport with the chaff upon some goodly threshing - floor , when men are sleeping ? are you looking for one of your mules or for some comrade ? do not stand there and say nothing , but speak . what is your business ? and agamemnon answered , sir , you would prove me , that you question me about noble hector . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your 
