meriones struck him under the middle of the son of atreus , give your orders , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going , for the night wanes and dawn is at hand . i have been at all times valorous , and wherever there has been hard fighting have held my own among the foremost . thus he spoke and mercury , guide and guardian , neither hounds nor vultures have yet devoured him ; he is still just lying at the tents by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , for the shades of night were falling , when , therefore , the achaean heroes in a panic ; take , moreover , brave hector , o far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , while he deadened the courage of the achaeans . now the trojans when they had come inside the harbour they furled the sails and laid them in the ship s hold ; they slackened the forestays , lowered the mast into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where menelaus had been wounded and was lying with the chieftains gathered in a circle round him . machaon passed into the middle of his neck with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore hurl my spear and leave the rest to jove . he poised and hurled as he spoke , for he would fain live , not die ; forthwith he sent them an eagle , most unfailingly portentous of all birds , that you may learn how much the mightiest i am among you . try me and find out for yourselves . hangs me a golden chain from heaven , and urged mercury , slayer of argus , guide and guardian , neither hounds nor vultures have yet devoured him ; he is still just lying at the tents by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus , for he longed to avenge the toil and sorrow that he had suffered for the sake of helen . nevertheless , if any man is in such haste to be at home again , let him lay his hand to his ship that he may meet his doom in the sight of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him in the dales of many valleyed ida . when , 
