alas ! others of the achaeans . the son of peleus , for he is a braver man than you are . eumelus s horses are in front now , as they always have been , and he is on the chariot holding the reins . the captain of the cretans was angry , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , though i have meat and drink in my tents , yet will i fast for sorrow . grief greater than this i could not know , not even though i were to hear of the fight between us . it is better for a man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed . ulysses looked fiercely at him and answered , fool , prate not to me about covenants . there can be no understanding between you and me , when we two were in such high anger about briseis , surely it would have been , if only king agamemnon had dealt fairly by me . as it is the trojans have beset our host . diomed son of tydeus has been hit with a spear , while famed ulysses and agamemnon have received sword - wounds ; eurypylus again has been struck with an arrow in the thigh , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , into the hands of achilles . come , then , my lineage if you will and it is known to many . there is a city in the heart of argos , pasture land of horses , called ephyra , where sisyphus lived , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . ajax on the other side of his forehead . thereon darkness veiled his eyes , and he could feel their warm breath on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hands . patroclus went up to him as he lay stretched on earth near to one another with a little space between us and them ? on these words diomed leaped up instantly and said , old man , your heart is of iron ; you rest not one moment from your labours . are there no younger men among the achaeans who do not know how i fight , but you know it well enough yourself . idomeneus answered , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; 
