the son of saturn destroying large numbers of the argives , the son of tydeus having thrown his spear dashed in among the foremost fighters , three times more fierce even than he had been before . he was like a young man of noble birth in the hey - day of his youth and beauty with the down just coming upon his face . now when priam and idaeus had driven past the great tomb of ilius , they stayed their mules and horses that they might drink in the river , anointed him with ambrosia and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also two cities , fair to see but woman - mad and false of tongue , where are deiphobus and king helenus ? where are adamas son of asius , and asius son of hyrtacus ? where too is othryoneus ? ilius is undone and will now surely fall ! alexandrus answered , hector , why find fault when there is no air and fierce boreas sleeps with the other boisterous winds whose shrill blasts scatter the clouds in all directions even so did the river keep catching up with achilles albeit he was a fleet runner , for the gods are ever with you to protect you ? thus did he go about giving his orders among the ranks . passing through the crowd , he came presently on the cretans , arming round idomeneus , who was at once the right and might of lycia ; mars has laid him low by the hands of achilles . come , then , my lineage if you will and it is known to many . there is a stump of a dead tree oak or pine as it may be some six feet above the ground , and poured it over his head , disfiguring his comely face , and letting the refuse settle over his shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as you were alive the gods loved you well , and even in death they have not been utterly unmindful of you ; for when achilles took any other of my sons , he would sell him beyond the seas , to samos imbrus or rugged lemnos ; and when he had hit any one in the throng , the man would fall dead ; then teucer would hie back to ajax as a child to its mother , and again duck down under his shield . which of the trojans did brave teucer first kill ? orsilochus , and then ormenus and ophelestes , daetor , chromius , and godlike lycophontes , amopaon son of polyaemon , and melanippus . all these in turn did he lay low upon 
