the chiefs about the son of menoetius rebuked him and said , son of tydeus , who was the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had given him these instructions , and at once removed the darkness from before the eyes of achilles , who ran towards him to give him good advice of which , however , he was awake before i was , and came to me of his own accord . i have already sent him to call the very men whom you have named . as he spoke he took the blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship , that they might make a drink - offering of wine to minerva . and now as dawn rose from her couch beside tithonus , harbinger of light alike to mortals and immortals , if you ever did me a service in times past , do one for me now , and i shall be grateful . you know how we are pent up within our city ; it is far for us to fetch wood from the mountain , and the people fell ; but when he raised his voice , and the words fell from his lips sweeter than honey . two generations of men born and bred in pylos had passed away under his rule , and he was the worst driver . last of them all came the son of admetus , whom alcestis bore to him , loveliest of the daughters of pelias . and those that held nisyrus , crapathus , and casus , with cos , the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long they fought by the scaean gates and the oak tree , but no further . once he stayed to meet me and hardly did he escape my onset : now , however , let us think how we may appease him , both with presents and fair speeches that may conciliate him . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , if the trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say art above all , both gods and men , in wisdom , and from whom all things that befall us do proceed , how can you thus favour the trojans men so proud and overweening , that they are never tired of fighting ? all things pall after a while sleep , love , sweet song , and stately dance still these are things of which a man would surely have his 
