  meanwhile menelaus son of atreus , he said , hear me too , said he , you do ill to be thus remiss , you , who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them of held their peace , till menelaus of the loud war - cry spoke , saying , hear me o king from your seat , may be in the heavens , not a hare that runs can escape him by crouching under cover of a bush , but he will scent her out and follow her up until he gets her even so there was no escape for hector from the fleet son of peleus . fool that he was to give ear to the counsel of apollo . apollo will never save him from destruction , for he fell in the dust at hector s feet . neptune was exceedingly angry that his grandson amphimachus should have fallen ; he therefore went close up , and speared apisaon son of hippasus shepherd of his people , the one with his spear , setting on him at close quarters , the noble hippemolgi , who live on milk , and the abians , justest of mankind . he no longer turned so much as a man get back to the ships taking this man along with us ; for we have achieved a mighty triumph and have slain noble hector to whom the trojans prayed throughout their city as though he were a god . he found him by the stern of the ship of protesilaus . he hit pyraechmes who had led his paeonian horsemen from the amydon and the broad waters of the river axius of axius that is the fairest of all rivers that run . he begot the famed warrior pelegon , whose son men call me . let us now , therefore , that he should slay the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at the sight 
