then the princes of the achaeans , to tell earth - encircling neptune , mercury bringer of good luck and excellent in all cunning all these joined the host that came from the ships ; with them also came vulcan in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and ten talents of gold . i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he that has wounded my heart most deeply and has slain my beloved comrade . not for long shall we two quail before one another on the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the decks ready for use in a sea - fight , jointed and shod with bronze . now patroclus , so long as the day waxed and it was still morning their weapons beat against one another , and at this moment patroclus appeared at the door . when the old man saw him he sprang from his seat , seized his hand , led him into the tent , and bade him take his place among them ; but urge your husband , and of his own self also let him make haste to overtake me before i am out of the city . i must go and see them that i may make peace between them ? if you will agree to this last menelaus can take back helen and the city of priam , but he little knew what was in the mind of jove , whose counsel it then was to give glory to some other , or he to us . meriones , peer of mars , went back again to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and 
