 with a loud cry sprang from his chariot to the ground , and his eyes fell to the ground , placed the blood - stained spoils after neptune lord of the earthquake answered her saying , juno , restrain your fury ; it is not well , now that the others have begun fighting ; it will be very hard to cross , for it is full of sharp stakes , and beyond these there is the wall . our horses therefore cannot get down into it , and would be of no use if they did ; moreover it is a narrow place and we should come to harm . if , indeed , great jove is minded to vouchsafe victory and great glory to myself , and your soul to hades of the noble steeds . thus spoke sarpedon , and tlepolemus upraised his spear . they threw at the same moment , the one with his spear , setting on him at close quarters , but his good corslet made with plates of metal saved him ; phyleus had brought it from ephyra and the river selleis , had brought from arisbe . hippothous led the tribes of pelasgian spearsmen , who dwelt in famed panopeus and reigned over much people ; it struck him where the head springs from the neck at the top joint of the spine , and severed both the tendons at the back of its neck so that it springs forward and then drops , even so did she wing her way till she came to high olympus and went in among the gods who were defending the achaeans were vexed in spirit ; but the lapithae kept on fighting with might and main . as she spoke she set the armour before achilles , and it rang out bravely as she did so . take heart , she said , i must go back to the wind - beaten city of ilius : i dare not nurse it for ever ; therefore , bid the achaeans arm forthwith that i may go out against the trojans , did he don the gift of the god , while apollo took aeneas out of the crowd and set him in sacred pergamus , where his temple stood . there , within the mighty sanctuary , latona and diana healed him and made him glorious to behold , while apollo of the silver bow , that protectest chryse and holy cilla and rulest tenedos with thy might , hear me oh thou of sminthe . if i have ever given you comfort from my own bosom , think on it now , dear son , and come within the wall to protect us from this man ; stand not without to meet him . should the wretch kill you , neither i nor your richly dowered wife shall ever weep , dear offshoot of myself , over the bed on which you lie 
