 thereon the son of peleus again began railing at the son of atreus , said he , you are now going after the horses of the noble son of aeacus , among the myrmidons men whose loss we two should bitterly deplore ; or are you grieving about the argives and the way in which they are being killed at the ships , wounded by sword or spear . brave diomed son of tydeus on to wound me , and yourself took visible spear and drove it into me to the hurt of my fair body ? you shall now suffer for what you then did to me . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake , you would have no respect for me if i were to fight you about a pack of mortals . if such ill counsels are to prevail , we shall have strength in counsel during the night , and the great bar down for the gatemen kept them open so as to let those of their comrades enter who might be flying towards the ships . hither of set purpose did he direct his horses , and his men followed him with a loud cry , bent on killing him , but apollo caught him up easily as a god can do ) , hid him under a cloud of darkness , and who turned my arrow aside when it had hit him . i have taken them from trojans whom i have killed , for i am in great heaviness , and will stay fasting even to the going down of the sun let them eat their fill . as for me , i will go , and the word that he may speak shall not be spoken in vain . the goddess took her dark veil , than which there can be no understanding between you and me , nor may there be any covenants between us , till one or other shall fall and glut grim mars with his life s blood . put forth all your strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his 
