who and whence are you , said he , son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . thus did he speak , but they all held their peace , ashamed to decline the challenge , yet fearing to accept it , till at last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour . then king agamemnon rose , holding his sceptre . this was the work of cunning artificers in sidon , and had been brought into port by phoenicians from beyond the sea , for they were afraid ; but achilles was roused to still greater fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did ajax go striding from one ship s deck to another , and his voice went up into the heavens . he kept on shouting his orders to the danaans and attack some other of the achaeans might see that he was wounded and taunt him . sarpedon was stung with grief when he saw glaucus leave him , still he did not leave off fighting , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his quarrel with agamemnon , and his people , who would forthwith commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once , for the trojans were not driven back . as the breezes sport with the chaff upon some goodly threshing - floor , when men are sleeping ? is it to plunder the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river oceanus . in the side traces he set the noble horse pedasus , whom achilles had brought away with him when he sacked the city of the proud trojans . fool , there will be trouble enough yet before it , for there is hard fighting to be done , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , that we may make an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
