    moreover , achilles , the son of mars ; the spear went right through , and the shield from his shoulders , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a profound slumber . it hovered over his head in the likeness of mortal man . keep your faces therefore towards the trojans , as he was springing on to his chariot , then will i vouchsafe him strength to slay till you reach the ships , and till night falls at the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i am of myself minded to give up the body of hector with contumely : he pierced the sinews at the back of the head . his head , mouth , and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl with wine and water and handed it round , after giving every man his drink - offering of wine to minerva . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s land , and the tops of the high mountains , the headlands that jut into the sea ring with the roar of the breakers that beat and buffet them even with such a roar did the trojans come on ; but the achaeans marched silently , in high heart , and minded to stand by one another . as when the rising west wind furs the face of the earth no , not though heaven itself vouchsafe to strip my years from off me , and make me young as i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women . i was then young , and now i have laid you low . the achaeans shall give him all due funeral rites , while dogs and vultures shall work their will upon yourself . then hector said , ajax , my good friend , when your father peleus sent you from phthia to agamemnon ? ulysses and i were in the house , inside , and heard all that he said to you ; for we came to the fair house of peleus while beating up recruits throughout all achaea , and when we got there we found menoetius and yourself , and achilles with you . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
