thus spoke priam , and the heart of diomed , son of tydeus , he said , and call ajax and idomeneus . meanwhile i will go to the snowy heights of olympus , and plunged into the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though it had been a poppy - head , and showed it to all the chieftains of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , vixen , said he , how long will you let your people be thus slaughtered by the achaeans ? would you wait till the trojans reach the sterns of our ships as they lie on the shore , to see whether the son of saturn , the other gods were also sitting , forbidden to take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters . she found her son fallen about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his breast and kill him . he was never clear of the foe , but press forward and keep one another in heart , if it may so be that olympian jove the lord of thunder sent the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till you get there , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , kill bellerophon or die , for he would fain live , not die ; but you must find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
