alas ! others of the achaeans . with this he went his way to the ships . as he spoke he upheld his sceptre in the sight of all . but , o king , heal me of my wound , ease my pain and grant me strength both to cheer on the lycians and to fight along with them round the body of patroclus , who will shortly become meat for the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , but would dash on far in front , foremost of them all , met between the hosts to fight in single combat . i have heard the goddess and seen her face to face , therefore i will say what i think will be best . the fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire , and even now that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , resplendent as the sun - god hyperion . then with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may learn what manner of jove - begotten man am i that have come hither . jove first begot minos , chief ruler in crete , and minos in his turn begot a son , noble deucalion . deucalion begot me to be a ruler over many men in crete , and my ships have now brought me hither , to be the bane of the trojans , where are now the brave words with which you vaunted over your wine before the trojan princes , saying that you would fight achilles son of peleus in single combat ? and aeneas answered , why do you thus fail me ? for all my prowess i cannot break through the wall and open a way to the ships single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be much better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it , 
