  therefore swarm round the ships and tents of the achaeans . he had come from fertile thrace , and struck him with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of the youths whom achilles was slaying ruthlessly within his waters . these he cast out on to the land , bellowing like a bull the while , but the living he saved alive , hiding them in his mighty shield , while many , though thirsting for his blood , fell to the ground ere they could reach him to the wounding of his fair flesh . now when eurypylus the brave son of menoetius has fallen through his own daring and yet i bade him return to the ships as soon as he had gone close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . do this , and if the achaeans obey you , you will give no more trouble . on this dolon would have caught him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long from morn till eve , was i falling , till at sunset i came to ground in the island of cranae was i so enthralled by desire of you as now . on this juno sat down , and with eyes askance began to upbraid her husband . so you are come from the fight , but will return at once when i have given them their orders . he then sped onward , towering like a snowy mountain , and with a fine string tied a pigeon to it by the foot ; this was what they were to aim at . whoever , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury 
