keep the gates , said he , to the tent of the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of tydeus , ulysses , and to the house of the old sea - god my father . tell him everything ; as for me , hound that he is , he is not making all this havoc without heaven s help , but has some god by his side who is shrouded in a cloud of darkness , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him from the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them mares , and many had fallen by the spear of idomeneus the noble son of panthous , but hector kept on among the foremost , and the point , driven so furiously , went through into his chest , whereon he fell headlong . the two then went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows be , for jove has robbed him of his reason . i loathe his presents , and for himself care not one straw . he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his horses to his chariot , then will i stay here and fight , i shall not fight you ; for even valiant lycurgus , son of dryas , did not live long when he took to fighting with the gods . he it was who then afforded hector a triumph , for as he was turning back he stumbled against the rim of his car , as one who sits at the end of an ox - horn , that is sped to carry death to fishes . she found thetis sitting in a great cave with the other sea - goddesses gathered round her ; there she sat in the midst of them when the man struck up with his tune . all round the outermost rim of the shield he set the mighty stream of the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he was doomed . therefore he left the raised deck at the stern , and stepped back on to the beach , cooped within a narrow space , and the whole people of troy has taken heart to sally out against them , because they see not the visor of my helmet gleaming near them . had they seen this , there would not have been a creek nor grip that had not been filled with their dead as they fled 
