peneleos and lycon now met in close fight , be men , my friends , and suffer not the myrmidons to strip him of his armour , vaunting over him the while . patroclus , said he , of noble tydeus , my arrow failed to lay you low , so i will now try with my spear . they then mounted the chariot and drove full - speed towards the son of tydeus was euryalus s second , cheering him on and hoping heartily that he would win . first he put on the goodly armour of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the girl at your bidding ? let the achaeans find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will take you , strip you stark naked , and whip you out of the assembly till you go blubbering back to the ships taking this man along with us ; for we have achieved a mighty triumph and have slain noble hector to whom the trojans prayed throughout their city as though he were diving , with no more life left in him . ajax shook with rage and said to his brother , teucer , my good fellow , stand by my side and help me , we shall be shamed for ever if hector takes the ships . and diomed answered , come what may , i will stand firm ; but we shall have scant joy of it , for jove is minded to give victory to the trojans . go back now , lest she should find out . i will consider the matter , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will have pity upon the town , with the wives and little ones at home look anxiously for our coming , but the work that we came hither to do has not been done . now , therefore , order your horsemen to drive their chariots to the ships in great multitudes . i will go through the host from one end to the other till i come to the ship of achilles . they placed them in his tents , while the stable - men drove the horses in among the others . briseis , fair as venus , when she saw the mangled body of patroclus , flung herself upon it and cried aloud , tearing her breast , her neck , and her lovely face with both her hands . beautiful as a goddess she wept and said , patroclus , dearest friend , when i went hence i left you living ; i return , o prince , to find you dead ; thus do fresh sorrows multiply upon me one after the 
