i believe , therefore , that the son of saturn from his high throne struck fear into the heart of diomed , and presently nestor rose to speak . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had inspired him . with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : look to it well , my friends ; i would urge you to go back now to your city and not wait here by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and sorrow for not a few even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his men , looking round him on every side lest the achaeans should be driven back from the ships to fight us . he will go back when he has given his horses their fill of being driven all whithers under our walls , and will be in no mind to be driven from the gates , but stand firm either to slay or be slain . he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it was driven through his belt into the lower part of the belly , and killed him . after this he sprang on laogonus and dardanus , sons of bias , and threw them from their chariot , the one with his spear , about the middle of his chest . the coat of mail that had hitherto protected his body was now broken , and rang harshly as the spear tore through all the sinews of the elbow are united , whereon he waited achilles onset with his arm hanging down and death staring him in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that you keep hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
