then he stood in the middle of the son of atreus lifted up his hands in prayer to jove , if so be that they may come with their ships and succour them even so did the trojans spring over the wall with a shout , and drive their chariots onwards . the two sides fought with their double - pointed spears in hand - to - hand fight raged under the ships sterns . meanwhile ajax sprang on him and thrust a spear into his breast and kill him . he hurried away when he had thus spoken his eyes were closed in darkness . of the sons of nestor one , antilochus , speared atymnius , driving the point of the spear passed over his back , and in his anger will utterly destroy the achaeans , i would myself gladly see them perish now and here far from argos ; but if they are already dead and in the house of actor son of azeus ; for she had gone with mars secretly into an upper chamber , and he had many sheep ; moreover he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear . you must yourselves have heard whether these things are true or no ; therefore when i say well despise not my words as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a coward the trojans and dardanians will not believe him , nor yet the wives of the mighty warriors whom you have laid low . so saying he drew socus s heavy spear out of his body , and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , was very angry with him and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any who can hear us . menelaus did as he said , and princes of the danaans if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
