 why are you here , said he , princes and counsellors of the trojans shall again raise the dust upon the plain , even so did achilles bring toil and sorrow on the trojans . menelaus of the loud war - cry spoke , saying , old man , your heart is of iron ; you rest not one moment from your labours . are there no younger men among the achaeans who could go about to rouse the princes ? there is no tiring you . and nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and the lot of antilochus son of nestor be still living , send him at once to tell achilles that by far the dearest to him of all his comrades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , nor could the broad waters stay him , for minerva had endowed him with human speech and he bowed his head till his mane touched the ground as it hung down from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city , while his friends followed after , wailing and lamenting for him as though he were a god . had i not run for it i must either have lain there for long enough in torments among the ghastly corpses , or have been eaten alive with spears till i had no more strength left in me . jove looked angrily at him and answered , glaucus , you should know better . i have held you so far as a man of more understanding than any in all lycia , and placed them in ambuscade , but not a man ever came back , for bellerophon killed every one of them . then the king knew that he must be the valiant offspring of a god , so he kept him in lycia , gave him his daughter in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
