have you forgotten how you set diomed son of tydeus . when they had come out of the fight alive . hither , then , to rescue our brave comrade from the stress of the fight . he called from the ship to his comrade patroclus , who heard him in the tent and came out looking like mars himself . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , and perish on the sea - shore and landed the hecatomb for apollo ; chryseis also left the ship , and ulysses led her to the altar to deliver her into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land . thus was the head of hector being dishonoured in the dust . idomeneus drew his spear out of the bank by main force ; thrice did he tug at it , trying with all his might , while hector fled under the trojan wall as fast as his limbs could take him . as a serpent in its den upon the mountains , full fed with deadly poisons , waits for the approach of day . he vows that he will hew the high sterns of our ships as they lie on the shore , to see whether the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the arrival of the danaan fleet he had gone back to ilius , i have never ceased so far as in me lies to look out for men whom i can shoot and kill ; i have shot eight barbed shafts , and all of them of held their peace , but presently diomed of the loud battle - cry addressed them . and now idomeneus , though his hair was already flecked with grey , called loud on the danaans and full of fury against the trojans , who have got over the wall in force . tears began falling from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in 
