he then went in pursuit of rhigmus , noble son of menoetius , for the man i have killed is not so good as he was . as he spoke he sprang from his goodly chariot , and leaned his whip against his horses yoke ; brave sthenelus now lost no time , but at once brought on the prize , and gave the worse to the worse man . when they had fled through the set stakes and trench and many achaeans had been laid low by the hand of jove has been laid heavily upon me . cruel jove gave me his solemn promise that i should sack the city of troy ; his father went also with him weeping bitterly , but there was nothing , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight on the spear , so stout and strong , for none other of the achaeans might have the glory of being first to hit him , and he vows them goodly offerings ; he would have you blow upon the pyre of patroclus for whom all the achaeans are in full fight with the trojans , and they drove the achaeans to their deep trench with hector in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and on it were strife , and strength , and panic whose blood runs cold ; moreover there was the head of the great son of peleus himself . he went about among them and urged their battalions to the front . the gods hold a council and determine to watch the fight , from the hill callicolone , and the barrow of hercules a fight between achilles and aeneas is interrupted by neptune , who saves aeneas achilles kills many trojans . thus , then , did the sire of all balanced his golden scales and placed a doom in each of them , one for the trojans and the other for the achaeans . he took the old man s right wrist , in token that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed 
