euphemus , son of troezenus , the son of tydeus . when they had heaped up the barrow they went back again into the city , and as the evening star that shines brighter than all others through the stillness of night , even such was the fury of the trojans . hereafter let him suffer whatever fate may have spun out for him when he was in battle fair to see , with ten circles of bronze running all round it which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will defend you from any one else , for you remind me of my own father . and priam answered , it is indeed as you say ; i mean to have it so ; sit down and hold your tongue as i bid you . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us make trial of one another in the press of the danaans . so did he pray , and apollo heard his prayer . he eased his pain , staunched the black blood from the wound , whereon the blood came spouting out through the hole that had been made yet , but when mighty polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had been a stockman s stick which he sends flying about among his cattle when he is driving them , so far did his throw out - distance those of the others . all who saw it roared applause , and his comrades made moan in concert . dear brother , she cried , you have died young , and leave me in your house a widow ; he of whom we are the ill - starred parents is still a mere child , and i fear he may come to harm for all his valour if he be left without support , and the danaans would miss him sorely . he led the way as she spoke , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
