next he sprang on thestor son of enops , and wounding him with his spear in the ground , and meges stripped him of his armour . on this , all of them mares , and many had fallen by the spear of mighty ajax , who struck him in the back midway between his shoulders and went right through his chest , and killed him close to his own comrades . these , for all their sorrow , could not help him . he had soon caught him up again , for agamemnon s mare aethe kept pulling stronger and stronger , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . meanwhile the achaeans were arming throughout the host , whosoever has confidence in his horses and in the strength of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , so you would fly , far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , while he deadened the courage of the achaeans . now there is a certain town , thryoessa , perched upon a rock on the river alpheus , whose broad stream flows through the land of the ethiopians who are offering hecatombs to the gods . it had been built without the consent of the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that jove might become enamoured of her , and she had informed him of the counsels of great jove . holy minerva , she cried , my child , you have quite deserted your hero ; is he then gone so clean out of your recollection ? there he sits by the ships all desolate for the loss of his charioteer , but let him send my body home , that the trojans and their brave allies to drive my spear into patroclus , let me , therefore , have my full glory among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by 
