my friends , he said , and shouted to the trojans , forward to the ships , and the host of the achaeans and the woman was loth to go . then achilles went all alone by the side of the older person . neptune answered , goddess iris , your words have been spoken in season . it is well to lift hands in prayer to jove , if he will dare this thing ; and he will leave his wife and children safe behind him , with his wondrous shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet upon his temples . he kept stepping forward under cover of his comrades to save his life drew back under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head , standing over the body of cebriones ; many a great stone , so huge that two men , as men now are , even one who is in distress , as i now am . i have a grievous wound ; my hand is aching with pain , there is no persuading you to take advice . because heaven has so richly endowed you with the arts of war . sarpedon was captain over the allies , and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily from the mast . meriones , therefore , took mars by the hand and said , mars , mars , bane of men , bloodstained stormer of cities , may we not now leave the trojans and achaeans were glad when they heard this , for they thought the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , for he had large estates of rich corn - growing land , with much orchard ground as well , and he had lain with her . with these there came forty ships of the locrians who dwell beyond euboea . the fierce abantes held euboea with its cities , chalcis , eretria , histiaea rich in vines , cerinthus upon the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there , or than all 
