they kept shouting incessantly to one another , the son of tydeus fled before me to the ships . when they reached troy and the place where his arms were lying , while alexandrus , husband of lovely helen aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going , for the night wanes and dawn is at hand . the stars have gone forward , two - thirds of the night are already spent , and the third is alone left us . they then put on their armour . the trojans on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for you are ever foremost to accept my invitation when we councillors of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and to devise evil for the trojans if i am angry with them ? thus did they converse , exulting in the hunger after battle with which the god had filled them . meanwhile the earth - encircler roused the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the achaeans can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have no judgement , and are wanting in much else as well , for you have no long time to live , and death with the strong hand of fate are already close beside you . now , therefore , though i have meat and drink in my tents , yet will i fast for sorrow . grief greater than this i could not know , not even though i were to hear of the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , 
