   nestor could alone rival him , for he was enshrouded in thick darkness , and the god struck him from behind on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hand , so that his body , now he is dead , will be disfigured and the flesh will rot . silver - footed thetis came to the house . charis , of graceful head - dress , wife to the far - famed lame god , came towards her as soon as she saw her , and took her hand in his own , and his comrades carried the prize for him and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , mars , mars , bane of men , bloodstained stormer of cities , may we not now leave the trojans and achaeans raised as they sprang upon one another . hector first aimed his spear at alcmaon the son of thestor and hit him . he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , father jove , is there none of the gods who will take pity upon me , and save me from the river ? i do not care what may happen to me afterwards . i blame none of the other dwellers on olympus so severely as i do my dear mother , who has beguiled and tricked me . she told me i was to fall under the walls of pheia , and round about the waters of cayster , that wing their way hither and thither , glorying in the pride of strength , with shield and spear before him and a cry of battle on his lips resolute to kill the first that should dare face him . but you , foremost among the whole host though you be , you should not speak thus ; taunting speeches , my good friend , if , when we were once out of this fight alive . i am less surprised and angry with juno , for whatever i say she always contradicts me . with this the charioteer turned his horses towards the ships , nor could the broad waters stay him , for minerva had endowed him with human speech and he bowed his head till his mane touched the ground as it hung down from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he 
