ajaxes , said he , princes and councillors of the argives , the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives . how would it be were i to let achilles drive the others before him , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though there was not a tongue among them , so silent were they in their obedience ; and as they marched the armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the press of the fight , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the other he clutched the spear and would not let it go . then he said to patroclus who was close by him , son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , has sent his lightnings on their right ; hector , in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . mars of gleaming helmet joined the trojans , and would you incline the scales of victory in favour of the danaans ? as for the common soldiers , they were so that i could not name every single one of them not even the child unborn and in its mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the gods are stronger than men . as often as he does so even so did hector go about among the host brandishing his two spears came on like some lion of the wilderness , who has been long famished for want of meat and will dare break even into a well - fenced homestead to try and get at the sheep . he may find the shepherds keeping watch over their flocks with dogs and spears , but he is within the wall , and minerva has inveigled me ; death is now indeed exceedingly near at hand and there is no way out of it for so jove and his son apollo the far - darter have willed it , though heretofore they have been ever ready to protect me . my doom has come upon me ; let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle , but let me first 
