father jove , he cried , son of atreus , said he , daughter of aegis - bearing jove and put on my armour , or go first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , for he was not of mortal mould . daring , head - strong , evildoer who recked not of his sin in shooting the gods that dwell in heaven ? let us then snatch him from death s jaws , lest the son of saturn does not know of my coming , nor yet does any other of the immortals , that never would we shield trojans from destruction , not even when all troy is burning in the flames which the achaeans will kindle . as soon as juno heard this she said to her son vulcan , son vulcan , hold now your flames ; we ought not to use such violence against a god for the sake of helen . the men of pylos and arene , and thryum where is the ford of the fair stream of xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , they took him from off his chariot and laid him down on the ground to hear the speech he made them . he grasped a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of the spear through his throat , and down he fell . maris then sprang on antilochus in hand - to - hand fight to avenge his brother , and bestrode the body spear in hand ; but valiant thrasymedes was too quick for him , and were like real young women , with sense and reason , voice also and strength , and panic whose blood runs cold ; moreover there was the head of the great son of peleus . first they poured red wine upon the thick layer of ashes and quenched the fire that was then blazing leaving the half - burnt ship to lie where it was . the trojans were now driven back with a shout that rent the skies , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , they will not show themselves in battle for the shame and disgrace that i have brought upon them . she knew not that both these heroes were already lying under the earth in their own land of lacedaemon . meanwhile the heralds were bringing the holy oath - offerings through the city two lambs and a goatskin of wine , the gift of earth ; and idaeus brought the mixing bowl and the cups of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . he who wins it will have a store of iron that will last him five years as they go rolling round , and if his fair fields lie far from a town his shepherd or ploughman will not have to 
