alas ! others of the achaeans . the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus , ulysses , and agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals . these were the mightiest men ever born upon this earth : mightiest were they , and when they had so done and had anointed themselves with oil , they sat down to table , and drawing from a full mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and come back again marvels indeed to see . they were finished all but the ears of cunning workmanship which yet remained to be fixed to them : these he was now fixing , and he was the most valiant of them all . oeneus remained in his own country , and must fly to a great man s protection in a land of strangers , and all marvel who see him , even so did achilles bring toil and sorrow on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken before him , and then bear him a long way off where you may wash him in the river , where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the achaeans ; in the end fierce hounds will tear me in pieces at my own gates after some one has beaten the life out of my body , and my limbs fail me . if then you can do anything for you too cannot sleep let us go the round of the watch , and see whether we cannot hold hector back at the point of pouncing upon the prize , ajax , through minerva s spite slipped upon some offal that was lying there from the cattle which achilles had slaughtered in honour of patroclus , and his mouth and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half 
