     the spear struck him in the back as he was flying among the foremost , and vouchsafed a triumph to hector . we two can fly as swiftly as zephyrus who they say is fleetest of all winds ; nevertheless it is your doom to fall by the hand of patroclus . he called on his trusty comrade and said , glaucus , my brother , hero among heroes , put forth all your strength ; you have need now to prove yourself indeed a bold soldier and man of war . you have no right to do so , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which the old man lashed with his whip and drove swiftly through the city , while his friends followed after , wailing and lamenting for him as though he were a god . he then took his seat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam remained untaken , the great wall of the achaeans stood firm ; but when the darkness of the tenth night came , i broke through the closed doors of my room , and climbed the wall of the argives , all you who with agamemnon and menelaus drink at the public cost , and give orders each to his own ship . the myrmidons attended to the presents and took them away to the ship of achilles . they placed them in his tents , while the stable - men drove the horses in among the others . briseis , fair as venus , and skilful as minerva , but i will give up his body , that the achaeans may bury him at their ships , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more 
