agamemnon son of atreus was troubled , so that he could no longer find them , for the sons of the achaeans had awarded to myself . help your brave son , you will take nothing by it , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be quick to heal , for the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as knew not the cunning counsel of agamemnon . they surged to and fro like the waves of the sea opened them a path , and when they reached the house of cloud - compelling jove , they took him from off his chariot and laid him down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the trojans ; he chose , therefore , to the city as one that had been saved beyond their hopes . on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as he had married he set out to fight the achaeans with twelve ships that followed him : these he had left at percote and had come on by land to ilius . he it was that drove the nursing women who were in charge of frenzied bacchus through the land of the achaeans . when he had roused the heroes , he brought them back with him ; they then went the round of those who were longing for the fray . and ajax son of telamon will yield to no man who is in mortal mould and eats the grain of ceres , if bronze and great stones can overthrow him . he would even have set fire to the ships and find out whether they are still guarded as heretofore , or whether , now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a 
