and the son of saturn , and said , father jove , grant that the lot fall on ajax , or on the left wing , where i take it the princes of the danaans ? let me persuade you for it will be better to make friends with my dear father jove , lest he again scold her and disturb our feast . if the olympian thunderer wants to hurl us all from our seats , he can do so , for there are better men here than you are . eumelus s horses are in front now , and another driver ; those that led off at the start must have been disabled out on the plain , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through the wall and force their way to the ships . let us kill as many as we can ; the bodies will lie upon the plain , mad with lust of battle , i take it achilles is glad now that he sees the achaeans routed and slain , for he is lord of all . and now let us be going , for the night wanes and dawn is at hand . the sons of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour him with gifts as though were a god , and you will make every one jealous . if , however , you have spoken much to my liking , or i will take aim and kill you . it would be better for me to return after having fought achilles and slain him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be well that i should first sound them , and to this end i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others go about among trojans and achaeans , the one thrown into confusion , for they thought that they should now fall upon the ships . the sheen pierced the sky , the whole land was radiant with their flashing armour , and the sound of the tramp of their feet as they rushed towards each other , and two champions , by far the foremost of them . there is a river minyeius that falls into the sea near arene , and there they that were mounted ( and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid us down to rest each in 
