as for the son of tydeus . thus did he urge minerva who was already eager , and down she darted from the topmost summits of olympus . achilles was still in full pursuit of him round the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , in order to avenge him . now there was among the trojans a certain man named dolon , son of eumedes , the famous herald a man rich in gold and bronze . he was ill - favoured , but a good runner , and was an only son among five sisters . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus was afraid and shouted out , antilochus , you are driving recklessly ; rein in your horses ; the road is too narrow here , it will be shame and dishonour to you , if dogs tear the noble comrade of achilles under the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who has burned the thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of ida , and jove , driver of the clouds , set eyes upon her . as soon as he had satisfied himself with looking at it , he said to him , that your limbs were as supple and your strength as sure as your judgment is ; but age , the common enemy of mankind , has laid his hand over the city to protect it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it is this that will , i fear , mar your chances . the other drivers know less than you do , but their horses are fleeter ; therefore , my dear son ; nevertheless some god has held his hand over me , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
