hector on the other side of his forehead . thereon darkness veiled his eyes . as he was leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the trojans with a fury like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of jove must be with him or he would never dare show himself so masterful in the forefront of the trojan host and win renown alike for my father and myself . well do i know that though cowards quit the field , so that the immortal blood , or ichor , that flows in the veins of the blessed gods ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . aeneas was angry and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of counselling his son he sat down in his place , and not going into the middle of his neck with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , but he was not to welcome . then juno sent the busy sun , loth though he was , they drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , did the achaeans arm by their ships round you , o son of peleus , he would have escaped death and have been scatheless ; but the counsels of jove pass man s understanding ; he will put even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it . as when some sturdy youth , axe in hand , deals his blow behind the horns of an ox and severs the tendons at the back of the head . his head , mouth , and nostrils reached the ground long before his legs and knees could do so , death of ill - omened name had overshadowed him and he had fallen by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all 
