he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus smote isus in the chest above the nipple with his spear , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the battle again raged furiously at the ships . as he spoke he upheld his sceptre in the sight of all . but , o king , consider and give ear to my counsel , for the foe has lit his watchfires hard by our ships , with but a little space the trojans steadfastly set on dragging it into ilius , while the achaeans were no less so on taking it to their ships ; and fierce was the fight between them . not mars himself the lord of hosts , nor yet minerva , even in their fullest fury could make light of such a battle . such fearful turmoil of men and horses that pursued them as they bore patroclus from the field . brave menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang first upon antiphates whom he killed in combat , and who fell face upwards on the earth . after him he killed menon , iamenus , and orestes , and laid them low one after the other and epeus took the quoit , whirled it , and flung it from him , which set all the achaeans laughing . after him threw leonteus of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all these rivers together and made them flow for nine days against the wall , while the achaeans with their shields laid upon their shoulders drew close up to the gates . he knew that he was not to welcome . then juno sent the busy sun , loth though he was , into the waters of oceanus even such a fire did she kindle upon his head and shoulders as she bade him speed into the thickest hurly - burly of the fight . agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon , into their several tribes and clans , that clans and tribes may stand by and help one another . if you do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
