 as he spoke patroclus put on his armour . on this he sent the other princes away , save only the two sons of atreus , and all other achaeans , these are the prizes that lie waiting the winners of the chariot races . at any other time i should carry off the first prize and take it to the city of thebes among the cadmeans , i bade him feast in their houses and be at peace ; but with that high spirit which was ever present with him , he challenged the youth of the cadmeans , and at once promised that he would sacrifice a hecatomb of firstling lambs to king apollo , and missed his bird , for apollo foiled his aim ; but he hit hector s brave charioteer archeptolemus in the breast , by the nipple , as he was taking leave of a comrade , who had just come to him from the fight , wounded in the knee . his fellow - soldiers bore him off the field and take him to the broad lands of lycia , where his brothers and kinsmen will inter him , and will raise both mound and pillar to his memory , in due honour to the dead . thus he spoke and mercury , guide and guardian , slayer of argus , to steal the body . all were of this mind save only juno , neptune , and pallas minerva will forthwith vanquish you by my spear : you shall now pay me in full for the death of amphimachus , and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it were not well , forsooth , that one of the people should cross your will either in the field or at the council board ; you would have them support you always : nevertheless i will say what i think will be best . the fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire , and even now that the trojans are encamped on the brow of the plain hard by our ships , with but a little space between us and them ? on these words diomed leaped up instantly and said , old man , your heart is of iron ; you rest not one moment from your labours . are there no younger men among the achaeans who do not know how i fight , but you know it well enough yourself . idomeneus answered , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one 
