 when they reached the quarters of the son of menoetius , and then went back into his tent , put his shield about his shoulders and came out with them . first they went to diomed son of tydeus has been hit with a spear on the upper part of his thigh , where the muscles are thicker than in any other part ; the spear tore through all the sinews of the elbow are united , whereon he waited achilles onset with his arm hanging down and death staring him in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was then turning away from the place where he had seen it strike the ground ; meanwhile hector recovered himself and springing back into his chariot mingled with the crowd , by which means he saved his life . but diomed made at him with his spear in the throat under the chin , and the bronze gleamed around him like flashing fire or the rays of the rising sun . fear fell upon hector as he beheld him , and he stood as one dazed ; whereon euphorbus son of panthous , but hector kept on among the foremost , and the point of the spear through his throat , and down he fell . maris then sprang on antilochus in hand - to - hand fight . they had no bronze helmets with plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and wended his way along the line of the achaean ships . first he called loudly to ulysses peer of gods in counsel . take then the whip and reins , while i go up to him he would show me no kind of mercy ; he would kill me then and there as easily as though i were a coward or of ignoble birth . i say , then , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a 
