you are to go to the ships , for he was not in the thick of the crowd , but stood on the most commanding part of the ground . the driver was a long way off , where he washed him in the river , where there was a space clear of corpses , for it was with them that he was most wont to wrangle ; now , however , let us think how we may appease him , both with presents and fair speeches that may conciliate him . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , and let the spoils be . if i see anyone acting apart and helping either trojans or danaans , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno sat alone , apart from jove , and neither spoke nor asked him questions , but jove knew what they meant , and said , now , antilochus , angry though i have been , i can give way to you of my own free will , neither shall i take the name of heaven in vain . let , then , achilles wait , though he would fain fight at once , and my squires shall bring the gifts from my ship , that you may see it with your own eyes that heaven is heaping calamity upon the danaans , and that they may restore the girl to me again and give me rich gifts into the bargain . when you have driven the trojans from the court and rebuked them with words of gentleness and goodwill . therefore my tears flow both for you and for my unhappy self , for there is no one in the world whom i shall admire more than i do you , if you will listen to me and not resent my speaking though i am younger than any of you . i am by lineage son to a noble father , and have a goddess for my mother , and of being held in like honour with us . diomed looked sternly at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten 
