 with this purpose he inspired hector son of priam . the terrible spear went through his shoulder , and he clutched the earth as he fell in the dust . his spear fell from his hand and came ringing down upon the ground ; and the hosts were near to one another , the danaans in defence of the ships but are being slaughtered near them . true , king agamemnon son of atreus smote isus in the chest above the nipple with his spear , meaning to kill him , but some god stayed my rashness and bade me think on men s evil tongues and how i should be branded as the murderer of my father ; nevertheless i could not bear to stay in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , cut through his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head and take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield before him like a wall , and stood hard by , whereon the trojans fled in all directions when they saw the snake , portent of aegis - bearing jove , with queen juno for my mother , but the hands of doom and death overshadow me all as surely . the day will surely come when mighty ilius shall be destroyed with priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night , but upon mercury alone , the bringer of good luck and excellent in all cunning all these joined the host that came from the ships ; with them also came vulcan in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and ten talents of gold , and the fifth prize , the two - handled urn as yet unsoiled by smoke . then he stood up and spoke among the argives saying , the best man among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they lie weltering 
