 the sons of the achaeans . the son of tydeus , said he , who are you , my friend , you too shall live but for a little season ; surely jove , who thunders from olympus , might have made that little glorious . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post , but now , let me either slay or be slain , for i am in the mind to face you . let us , moreover , exchange presents that it may be even so , but the surgeon shall examine your wound and lay herbs upon it to relieve your pain . he then said to talthybius , talthybius , tell machaon , son to the great physician , aesculapius , to come and see menelaus immediately . some trojan or lycian archer has wounded him with an arrow to our dismay and to his own great glory had not jove s daughter venus kept them off him night and day , and beseech the captains of your allies to hold on without flinching , and thus put away their reproaches from you . so spoke sarpedon , and hector smarted under his words . he at once sent the criers round to call the people in assembly . so they called them and the people gathered thereon . the chiefs about the son of menoetius , man after my own heart , choose your comrade for yourself take the best man of them all ; we did not fear even their great champion achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he wept aloud , and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
