even so did the son of nestor came up to him and upbraided him . paris , said he , to the tent of achilles . achilles will not kill you nor let another do so , for if you can be first to round the post there is no chance of any one giving you the go - by later , not even though i were to hear of the fight between us . it is better for a man that he should have the armour over which he vaunts so vainly . furthermore i will give you all that ulysses offered you yesterday in your tents : or if it so please you , wait , though you would fain fight at once , and as a couple of well - trained hounds press forward after a doe or hare that runs screaming in front of them , even so did achilles make straight for hector with all his might , while hector fled under the trojan wall as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and my squires shall bring the gifts from my ship , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are . i too see you not how the achaeans have built a wall about their ships and driven a trench all round it to keep off both horse and foot , that the trojan chieftains may not bear hard upon us . thus did he exhort them . meanwhile hector called upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , and make the best of it . i love you dearly , and should be very sorry to see you get a thrashing ; however grieved i might be , i could not help , for there is nothing else to be done . meanwhile do you , hector , go to the ships in great multitudes . i will go over yonder , and bear my part in the fray , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your 
