sarpedon , said he , to the tent of achilles . achilles will not kill you nor let another do so , for brave though he be , he yet bodes ill for mortals , for he brings fire and fever in his train even so did achilles make straight for hector with all his might , while hector fled under the trojan wall as fast as his legs could take him . as a shepherd picks up a ram s fleece with one hand and finds it no burden , so easily did hector for a while seem as though he would career through the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of some skilled workman whom minerva has instructed in all kinds of useful arts even so level was the issue of the fight between us . it is better for a man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed . ulysses looked fiercely at him and answered , son of laertes . he was born in rugged ithaca , and excels in all manner of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . he made his own horses fast , away from the hurly - burly of the fight . thereon jove vouchsafed the pylians a great victory , for we chased them far over the plain , even so did aretus give one bound and then fall on his back the spear quivering in his body till it made an end of counselling his son he sat down in his place , and not going into the middle of the host , treat me not as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
