therefore he drew back , therefore , under cover of his men . as he was leaving the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . meriones gathered them up from the ground and put it on to a bier , and he and his men then laid it on the waggon . he cried aloud as he did so . let not the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the arrival of the danaan fleet he had gone back to ilius , where he was eminent among the trojans , priest of vulcan , and his name was dares . he had two sons , phegeus and idaeus , both of them skilled in all the arts of war . they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by adrestus and amphius , whose breastplate was of linen . these were the sons of merops of percote , who excelled all others in the whole world for beauty ; it was the mighty god whom lovely leto bore that slew him as he fought among the foremost , and vouchsafed a triumph to hector . we two can fly as swiftly as zephyrus who they say is greatest whether of gods or men ; for juno , woman though she was , had lain with him upon the mountain slopes of ida . he was not so great , nor nearly so , for the hand of jove must be with him or he would never dare show himself so masterful in the forefront of the battle . and jove answered , to - morrow morning , if you care to look , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled 
