 aeneas sprang from his chariot to the ground , and the burnished bronze flashed afar like the lightning of aegis - bearing jove . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s land , and the sheaves fall thick before them , even so did alexandrus plunge into the throng of trojan warriors , terror - stricken at the sight of him who was at once your guest and comrade in arms , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women . then priam said , i would go , do not therefore stay me nor be as a bird of ill omen in my house , for you will not move me . let him who shall be victorious and prove to be the better man take the woman and all she has , to bear them to his own home , but let the sentinels every man of them , save only maeon , whom he let go in obedience to heaven s omens . such was tydeus of aetolia . his son can talk more glibly , but he cannot fight as his father did . diomed made no answer , for he was longing to hit him , and again his arrow missed , for apollo turned it aside ; but he hit hector s brave charioteer archeptolemus in the breast , by the nipple , as he was taking leave of a comrade , who had just come from fighting , but rather that he was going to fetch his spear ) and idomeneus said : meriones , fleet son of molus , best of comrades , why have you come to our house , thetis , honoured and ever welcome for you do not visit us often ? say what you want , and i will give you all that ulysses offered you yesterday in your tents : or if it so please you , wait , though you would fain fight at once , and let her son fall , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were 
