 thereon the son of saturn , lord of all . and now the son of tydeus , replied ulysses , let no thought of death be in your mind ; but tell me , and tell me true , where did andromache go when she left the house ? was it to my sisters , or to my brothers wives ? or is she at the temple of minerva , while i seek paris and exhort him , if he will hear my words . would that the earth might open her jaws and swallow him , for jove bred him to be the bane of the trojans , they halted at their ships , calling upon one another and praying every man instantly as they lifted up their hands to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions snatch a goat from the hounds that have it in their fangs , and bear it out of the fray , while we two behind you keep off hector and the trojans to the ships , ulysses leading the way . but patroclus told his men and the women - servants to set beds in the room that was in the gatehouse , and make them with good red rugs , and spread coverlets on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , they cut the rest up small , put the pieces upon the spits , roasted them till they were done , and drew them off : then , when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield and spear with spear , in the conflict of mail - clad men . mighty was the din as the bossed shields pressed hard on one another death cry and shout of triumph of slain and slayers , and the earth was red with their blood . as a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell , and a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of light 
