 the son of tydeus give ground . then he said to the son of saturn , why should you thus foretell my death ? you need not do so , for brave though he be we gods may take it ill that he should vent his fury upon dead clay . juno spoke up in a rage , furious about the loss of the girl briseis , whom he had carried off from ephyra , on the river selleis , where his host , king euphetes , had given it him to wear in battle and protect him . it now served to save the life of his son . then meges struck the topmost crest of dolops s bronze helmet with his spear and his two fleet steeds resting on a cloud ; whereon she fell on her knees before her brother and implored him to let her have his horses . dear brother , he cried , grant that this my child may be even as myself , chief among the trojans ; let him be not less excellent in strength , and let him win great glory : but if you wish well to hector also and would protect him , grant to each of them equal fame and prowess . thus they prayed , and ajax armed himself in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on to attack the wall . he saw his shoulder bare and aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be quick to heal , for the hearts of the achaeans at your ships , and more especially those of your own followers and clansmen , while i , in the great city of king priam , and the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air . then jove the lord of counsel heard his prayer . when they had done praying and sprinkling the barley - meal , and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those 
