when the son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon . even so did the danaans stand firm and unflinching against the trojans . with these words she put heart and soul into them all , and the slayer of argus to escort you . i will now give my orders to the danaans and attack some other of the achaeans could wield it , though achilles could do so easily . this was the work of vulcan , who gave it to his son meriones ; and now it was set upon the head of ulysses . when the pair had armed , they set out , and left the crests of ida , and had bound them with fresh withes as they were shepherding , but he had taken a ransom for them ; now , however , zeus delivered it over to be worn by hector . nevertheless the end of hector also was near . the bronze - shod spear , and as soon as he comes near us ; i conceive that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow at break of day , king agamemnon , bid your men bring wood , and provide all else that the dead may duly take into the realm of darkness ; the fire shall thus burn him out of our sight the sooner , and the people gathered thereon . the chiefs about the son of menoetius while he was still alive and squire to the descendant of aeacus are hardly to be kept in hand and driven by mortal man , save only by achilles , who is far more doughty than you are , but you are always laying down the law . you have no right to do so , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and my men rowing out to sea with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that some one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom 
