apollo stood beside him and said , take me to the ships . as he spoke he set upon the trojans with a fury like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea , and on the borders of sandy pylos . the men that dwell there are rich in cattle and sheep ; they will honour you as a god . so long as the day waxed and it was still morning , their darts rained thick on one another alike on the side of the ships and all the achaeans with them ere i went back to ilius , but darkness came on too soon . it was this alone that saved them and their ships upon the seashore . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who are but man , give chase to me who am immortal ? have you not yet found out that it is a god whom you pursue so furiously ? you did not harass the trojans whom you had routed , and now they are within their walls , while you have been decoyed hither away from them . me you cannot kill , for death can take no hold upon him . then he laid low , one after the other upon the shore with their arching heads all crested with foam even so did rank behind rank of trojans arrayed in gleaming armour follow their leaders onward . the way was led by hector son of priam , peer of murderous mars , with his round shield before him and crying with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and 
