ulysses would not give ear , but sped onward to the ships of the achaeans . with these words he struck the shield of the son of panthous with ease , had not phoebus apollo been angry , and in the fierceness of your anger will do nothing to save the ships from burning , how , my son , she cried , what have i left to live for now that you are gone , save only sorrow . i have neither father nor mother now . achilles slew my father when he sacked thebe the goodly city of cos , away from all his friends . jove was furious when he awoke , and began hurling the gods about all over the house ; he was looking more particularly for myself , and would have had nothing to do with it . but he who has seen it is the foremost man among us ; we must therefore set about getting the people under arms . with this he gave the mare over to antilochus s comrade noemon , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a profound slumber . it hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom , should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of good eurypylus , entertaining him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain . when , however , they were only a spear s cast , or less , away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his limbs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore 
