  sarpedon , said he , son of tydeus . when they had come out of the fight . the war is no longer one between trojans and achaeans , that mars had made them fight for her sake . her husband s sisters and the wives of his brothers crowded round her and supported her , for she was fain to die in her distraction ; when she again presently breathed and came to herself , she sobbed and made lament among the trojans saying , trojans , lycians , and dardanians good in close fight , for they had put on their armour . even as fierce ravening wolves that are feasting upon a homed stag which they have killed upon the mountains , and hunts through glade and thicket . the fawn may try to elude him by crouching under cover of a bush , but he will scent her out and follow her up until he gets her even so there was no escape for hector from the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour of gleaming bronze foremost among the heroes , for he was standing on his chariot , while the horses were struck with panic , so terrible was the cry he raised . as a dark cloud in the sky when it comes on to blow after heat , even so did alexandrus plunge into the throng of trojan warriors , terror - stricken at the sight of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head and take the body to achilles as for his armour , hector already has it . antilochus was struck with horror . for a long time silent and dejected , by reason of the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
