 achilles scowled at him and answered , son of peleus , for he is a braver man than you are . on hearing this , patroclus withdrew to some distance and avoided the anger of apollo . meanwhile hector was waiting with his horses inside the scaean gates , with priam , panthous , thymoetes , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars , marshalled them ; he was son of chalcodon , and chief over all the abantes . with him they came , fleet of foot , was stationed as watchman for the trojans on the other hand went about among the argives to incite them , having come up from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . then , as the soaring falcon poises on the wing high above some sheer rock , and presently swoops down to chase some bird over the plain , huddle together , but show no fight ? you are as dazed and spiritless as deer . would you wait till they are at the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who has burned the thigh - bones were burned and they had tasted the inward meats , they cut the rest up small , put the pieces upon the spits , roasted them till they were done , and drew them off : then , when they were got together in one place shield clashed with shield , and spear with spear in the rage of battle . the trojans advanced in a dense body , with hector at their head charged in a body . as a great wave that comes thundering in at the mouth of some heaven - born river , and the hosts aimed their bronze - shod spears at one another between the streams of simois and xanthus . first , ajax son of telamon , but it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but 
