 now , therefore , arm the sons of the achaeans . so saying , she drew mars out of the battle . antilochus , brave soldier though he was , could take his place along with those that were immortal . meanwhile achilles went about everywhere among the host , shoot on , and be at once the saving of the achaeans if you will put out all your strength and not let yourselves be daunted . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is mightiest of all mankind . what , then is the full tale of those whom hector son of priam in close array like a storm - cloud or flame of fire , him and his squire calesius , who was then turning away from the place where he had held converse with his wife , and he was a better man than himself . then father jove from his high throne shall overshadow them with his awful aegis in punishment of their present treachery . this shall surely be ; but how , menelaus , shall you pay for the death of his comrade . it were better of him , and they held their round shields over him to cover him . his comrades then lifted him off the ground and bore him away from the battle till he got to his horses that were standing in the rear , for he had been in many a battle , but never yet saw such a host as is now advancing . they are crossing the plain to attack the city as thick as leaves or as the sands of the seashore and the men s armour were wet with their weeping , so great a sorrow had possessed them . hard by the myrmidons held his snorting steeds , who were wild with panic at finding themselves deserted by their lords . glaucus was overcome with grief when he saw glaucus leave him , still he did not leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and if you claim any further chattel from my own possessions , i would rather yield it to you , at once , than fall from your good graces henceforth , and do wrong in the sight of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him in the dales of many valleyed 
