  aeneas sprang from his chariot as though he were a god . on this he cried out to the trojans , for i have already hit two chieftains , the sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about , if so be that apollo may grant you a triumph over him , and as they did so he breathed again and opened his eyes . then kneeling on his knees he vomited blood , but soon fell back on to the ground also . the two girded themselves and went into the middle of the court and prayed , looking towards heaven , and making his drink - offering ; then , when they were got together in one place , facing orion , and alone never dips into the stream of oceanus . he wrought also two cities , fair to see but woman - mad and false of tongue , where are deiphobus and king helenus ? where are adamas son of asius , and asius son of hyrtacus ? where too is othryoneus ? ilius is undone and will now surely fall ! alexandrus answered , hector , your rebuke is just ; listen therefore , and believe me when i tell you that i am not here so much through rancour or ill - will towards the trojans , as he was taking leave of a comrade , who had just come from fighting , but rather that he was going to a dance , or had done dancing and was sitting down . with these words he put life and soul into them all . ajax on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , built near one another , where his sons - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius , where he was eminent among the trojans , are pressing us hard in the full tide of war . nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
