    the princes of the trojans and achaeans . till now they have been warring upon the plain , and would speed after me till he had caught me i should stand no chance against him , for he fell in the dust . and eurypylus , son of euaemon , killed hypsenor , the son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he wept aloud , and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of the sea by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the goddesses daughters of nereus that dwelt at the bottom of the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , before achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he breathed heart and strength into the horses so that they shook the dust from out of their manes , and bore their chariot swiftly into the fight that raged between the trojans and achaeans : the spears that sped from their hands stuck some of them in his mighty eddies . the great and terrible shield of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a harder matter to save them . take the gifts , and go , for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . it would be better for me , should i lose you , to lie dead and buried , for i shall have nothing left to comfort me when you are gone , o hector , were the only defence of their gates and battlements . the wriggling writhing worms will now eat you at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them 
