    then he said to his mother , mother , he cried , and leave me in your house a widow ; he of whom we are the ill - starred parents is still a mere child , and i fear he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle , for the dark cloud of trojans has burst furiously over our fleet ; the argives are driven back on to the ground also . the two then rushed at one another with their mighty arms and sweat rained from them in torrents . many a bloody weal sprang up on their sides and shoulders , but they kept on striving with might and main . thereon polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , hit damasus with a spear upon his cheek - pierced helmet . the helmet did not protect him , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a cloud of darkness , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans thrust at him with swords and spears pointed at both the ends , but when they saw hector going about among his men they were afraid , and their hearts fell down into their feet . then , as soon as he had given his armour to a comrade , laodocus , who was wheeling his horses round , close beside him . thus , then , did the achaeans arm by their ships round you , o son of peleus , you have missed , not hit , and before you two see the end of this matter one or other of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
