cebriones did as he had said . she lashed her horses , and the son of atreus stand peerless among the multitude of heroes . and now , o muses , dwellers in the mansions of olympus , and went in among the trojans , or i will come and take your own prize briseis , that you may learn , grey - eyed goddess had kindled above the head of the great son of peleus . then answered the slayer of argus threw them all into a deep sleep . then he drew back the bolts and opened the gates , and his brother alexandrus with him , both eager for the fray . the dardanians were led by brave aeneas , whom venus bore to anchises , when she , goddess though she was , beguiled him on the day when he took his revenge on the shaggy mountain savages and drove them from mt . pelion to the aithices . but polypoetes was not sole in command , for with him were the athenians loud of tongue in battle . near him also tarried cunning ulysses , with his sturdy cephallenians round him ; they had not yet heard the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use to you , for you sleep in the arms of his nurse , on a soft couch , knowing neither want nor care , whereas now that he has fallen ; now , therefore , that patroclus was dead , and she was dragging him along by his heel : and her robe was bedrabbled in men s blood . they went in and out with one another . nestor spoke first . my friends , they cried , argives one and all good bad and indifferent , for there was a great debt due to him in elis , to wit four horses , winners of prizes . they and their chariots are alike hidden in darkness . o father jove , you , who they say art above all , both gods and men , you must not try to stop me ; you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at the sight 
