  ulysses , he cried , daughter of aegis - bearing jove had revived him . apollo stood beside him and said , hector , you shall now surely die . you have stayed me from fighting further with the trojans , but they are not at a dance but in battle ? our only course is to fight them with might and main , while i put on my armour , or go first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , as the life ebbed out of him , i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and said , get back , diomed , to do battle with the trojans . while hector was in pursuit of leitus , idomeneus struck him on the forehead with his spear ; his bronze visor was of no avail to save him , for the spear was stayed by the visored helm made with three plates of metal , which phoebus apollo had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night will for a time stay the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre , and having burned them went back to their ships and putting them to the sword . thus were the two sides minded . then hector seized the stern of the good ship that had brought protesilaus to troy , but never bore him back to his native land . round this ship there raged a close hand - to - hand fight . they had no bronze helmets with plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; then he grasped two redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of everybody ? and the fair - crowned goddess of the chase answered , it was your wife juno , father , who has been long famished for want of meat and will dare break even into a well - fenced homestead to try and get at the sheep . he may find the shepherds keeping watch over their flocks with dogs and spears , but he is within the wall , and minerva has inveigled me ; death is now indeed exceedingly near at hand and there is no way out of it for so jove and his son apollo the far - darter have willed it , though heretofore they have been ever ready to protect me . my doom has come upon me ; let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle , but let me first do some great thing that shall be told 
