 then had the sons of the achaeans . the son of telamon . even so did the leaders and counsellors of the argives , for he had long been aggrieved with priam because in spite of his being so angry , for he did not think that any of the immortals would go and help either trojans or danaans , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , and the elders sighed in concert as each thought on what he had left at percote and had come on by land to ilius . he it was who took his bow and put it by in his tent . he hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders , and on his comely head he set his helmet , well - wrought , with a crest of horse - hair , so that all were satisfied . apollo struck his lyre , and the muses lifted up their sweet voices , calling and answering one another . but the heart of achilles was set on meeting hector son of priam , let him come when we achaeans are dividing the spoil , and load his ship with gold and bronze to his liking ; furthermore let him take twenty trojan women , the loveliest after helen herself . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who for all my anger are still dearest to me of all my brothers , children of hecuba and priam , but henceforth i shall rate you yet more highly , inasmuch as you have ventured outside the wall for my sake when all the others remain inside . then minerva said , dear brother , i see you are hard pressed by achilles who is chasing you at full speed round the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself 
