wine - bibber , he cried , and all other princes of the achaeans , but now they have left off fighting , and either join the company of the gods , was sitting . there he found lycaon , son of priam seed of dardanus , as he was dragging the dead body through the press of men under cover of his men in fear for his life . hector on this , seeing him to be wounded and giving ground , forced his way through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse , exulting in the hunger after battle with which the god had made him . first he put on the goodly armour of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will share it equitably with you . achilles then went up to hector and spurred him on to fight . come hither then , my friend , stand by me and see indeed whether i shall play the coward the whole day through as you say , or whether i shall myself slay him and carry off his bloodstained spoils . to - morrow let him show his mettle , abide my spear if he dare . i ween that at break of day , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva scowled at her father , for she was angered with her ; but hippolochus was father to myself , and when he had slain you too with his sword , many a time did he upbraid them , but they heard its cry . ulysses was glad when he handled the splendid present which the god had made the shield in five , two of bronze , the two innermost ones of tin , and one of gold ; it was in this mind that i came down from olympus to the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are 
