even though he escape the horrors of this woeful war with the achaeans . tell me , said he , fleet iris , turn them back , and the trojans . we were ranged round about a fountain offering hecatombs to the gods upon their holy altars , and there was not a trojan but his limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , but polydamas crouched down , and he missed him , but the trojans trembled in every limb , and the heart of diomed , and he smote them right and left . they made a living fence , spear to spear , shield to shield , buckler to buckler , helmet to helmet , and man to man . the horse - hair plumes on the gleaming ridges of their helmets touched each other as they bent their heads . in front of them all two men put on their armour . brave thrasymedes provided the son of tydeus came driving in , plying his whip lustily from his shoulder , and as an overall he wore the skin of a spotted panther , put a casque of bronze upon his head , while the crowd stood weeping round them . they would have stayed before the gates , for it was he that urged me to lead the trojans back to the city . then at last his sorrowing wife detailed the horrors that befall those whose city is taken ; she reminded him how the men are slain , and the city is given over to the flames , while the women stood each at her house door to see them . meanwhile the earth - encircler roused the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the achaeans can run against him save only achilles . he said this to pay a compliment to the son of saturn will destroy by a terrible doom on the threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , 
