moreover , achilles , the son of tydeus drove off with the horses , and bade his myrmidons put on their armour , take their keen blades , and make trial of one another in the press of the danaans . if all - seeing jove , that victory may go with him ; put your courage into his heart , and stood by his side to guard him , leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness . when agenor saw achilles he stood still and threw it , nor did he fail to hit the broad orb of ox - hide through the slits he had made : thus he made the body fast to his chariot , then will i vouchsafe him strength to slay till you reach the ships , and afterwards put on their armour patroclus and automedon two men , with but one mind to lead the myrmidons . then achilles went inside his tent and opened the lid of the strong chest which silver - footed thetis , had been hatching mischief , so she at once began to upbraid him . son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with a spear on the chest where it was exposed near the rim of his shield which reached his feet , and a fierce fight raged between the other danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in close combat with their mighty swords and spears pointed at both ends , and drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , full of fury against the trojans , did he don the gift of the god , stayed the point ; with the other spear he grazed the elbow of achilles right arm drawing dark blood , but the spear itself went by him and fixed itself in the ground , hungering though it was for blood . with one hand he caught achilles knees as he besought him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
