the son of peleus before andromache . the son of tydeus . when they had so said they went back to the house of jove , while juno darted down from the high summit of olympus , and tell this tale to jove , if he will hear our prayer : meanwhile stay where you are with your ships , nurse your anger against the achaeans , and compelled me to leave off fighting ? i made sure that this very day i should breathe my last and go down into the sea ; if , however , you have spoken truly . ulysses once came here as envoy about yourself , and menelaus with him . i received them in my own house , for i love her better even than my own wife clytemnestra , whose peer she is alike in form and feature , in understanding and accomplishments . still i will give her up if i must , for i would have the people live , not die ; forthwith he sent them an eagle , most unfailingly portentous of all birds , even so did hector fall to earth and bite the dust . his mother tore her hair , and flung her down from heaven so that she fell on to the fields of mortal men ; wherefore the gods carried him off to be jove s cupbearer , for his beauty s sake , that he might excel all the other argives , and cover himself with glory . she made a stream of fire flare from his shield and helmet like the star that shines most brilliantly in summer after its bath in the waters of oceanus ; so he set , and the achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen . for the loser he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus 
