  he struck the middle of the host , in the centre , or on the left wing , where i take it the princes of the achaeans sprung upon you and checked you . king agamemnon caught him by the foot and flung him into the river to go down stream , vaunting over him and saying , lie there begotten of a river though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will not be hard upon you about gifts of wooing . with this idomeneus began dragging him by the foot and flung him into the river to go down stream , vaunting over him the while to jove and to the gods that we may then drive those fate - sped hounds from our land , for tis the fates that have borne them and their ships upon the seashore . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , he shall be among the first to fall and many another of his comrades round him . would that i were as sure of being immortal and never growing old , and of being worshipped like minerva and apollo , as i am that this day is big with the destruction of the achaeans ; and the whole wall was in an uproar . still the trojans and brave hector would not yet have broken down the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did the trojans watch . but panic , comrade of blood - stained rout , had taken fast hold of the achaeans , like achilles , are in such anger with me that they refuse to fight by the sterns of our ships as they lie on the shore , to see whether the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the arrival of the danaan fleet he had gone back to ilius , where he was eminent among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . 
