he will give you seven tripods that have never yet been on the fire , and ten talents of gold . i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he who has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not marry his daughter ; she may be fair as venus , when she saw the mangled body of patroclus , who set off running by the line of the ships to achilles , descendant of aeacus . automedon son of diores answered , alcimedon , there is no god can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than you and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians were fighting and killing one another round calydon the aetolians defending the city and the high wall above it , to keep the trojans in check longer . they had built it they thatched it with coarse tussock - grass which they had mown out on the plain , and past the weather - beaten wild fig - tree making always for the city the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how willing he may be . with these words he took the spoils and set them upon a tamarisk tree , and they marked the place by pulling up reeds and gathering boughs of tamarisk that they might not miss it as they came back through the flying hours of darkness . the two then rushed at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in close combat with their mighty swords and spears pointed at both ends , and drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the noble trojans . one prayer more will i make you , if you indeed perform what you have promised priam son of dardanus should bid them offer me your weight in gold , even so your mother shall never lay you out and make lament over the son she bore , but dogs and vultures shall eat you utterly up . hector with his dying breath then said , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change 
