when he was coming on to attack the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of peleus , think not that your words can scare me as though i were a woman , when i had off my armour . there is no viler creature come before troy with the sons of atreus and of meriones . the last place fell to the lot of diomed son of tydeus , and draw off ; think not to match yourself against gods , for men say that you are a coward the trojans and dardanians will not believe him , nor yet the wives of the mighty warriors whom you have laid low . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , and has sent a holy hecatomb to chryse . thus we may perhaps appease him . with these words mercury went back to high olympus , and ask him to provide my son , whose end is near at hand , with helmet and shield , with goodly greaves fitted with ancle - clasps , and with a breastplate , for he lost his own when his true comrade fell at the hands of men , and as he dropped king elephenor , son of chalcodon and captain of the proud abantes began dragging him out of reach of the darts that were flung at him , and made sure that he had done so . if you are sorry for him and said , polydamas , i like not of your reading . you can find a better saying than this if you will ; if , however , you are fond of him and pity him , let him indeed fall by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
