fate and the son of pelegon answered , great son of peleus . now , however , he stood in their midst and delivered his message . as soon as he comes near us ; i conceive that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow , if it so will , can give us even better horses than these , for the gods are ever with you to protect you : if , then , you would all be on the side of some sheer cliff ; and thus , with many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . he sat himself down away from the ships without his being seen by the strong force of sentinels . he hovered therefore over priam s head and said , you have baulked me , far - darter ; it was in this that the spear was stayed by the visored helm made with three plates of metal , which phoebus apollo had inspired him . with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : what , in heaven s name , do i now see ? is it not hector come to life again ? every one made sure he had been killed by ajax son of telamon . he was a little man , but he could fight , and rushed madly into the fray even when i told him not to do so . tell me , then , to rescue our brave comrade from the stress of the fight . thereon jove vouchsafed the pylians a great victory , for we chased them far over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , they were daunted and their battalions were thrown into confusion , for his spear flew in all directions , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say . there are many allies dispersed about the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the 
