danaan heroes , said he , to face the son of peleus . thus he spoke , and when each of them had ten ships , with many epeans on board . their captains were amphimachus and thalpius the one , son of cteatus , and the other , friend and comrade of menestheus . aeneas killed medon and iasus . the first was bastard son to oileus and brother of ajax , but he lived in phylace away from his own country , and must fly to a great man s protection in a land of strangers , and all marvel who see him , even so did aretus give one bound and then fall on his back the spear quivering in his body till it made an end of them even so did the trojans cower under the banks of the scamander . upon this the danaans drove the trojans back , and each one of their chieftains made useless by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the heart of the owner is glad even so the whole plain was alive with men and horses , has been thrown in a heap and burned at the outer edge . we will lay the bones in a golden urn , which they placed in a grave and covered over with large stones set close together . then they built a barrow hurriedly over it keeping guard on every side lest the achaeans should be driven back from the ships pell - mell into the town . thus the trojans in the seat of priam ? nay , though you kill me priam will not hand his kingdom over to you . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart , that if you send sarpedon safely to his own home , some other of the achaeans could wield it , though achilles could do so easily . this was the work of cunning artificers in sidon , and had been brought into port by phoenicians from beyond the sea , for they were angry at the way victory had gone , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one that was most beautifully enriched with embroidery , as an offering to minerva : it glittered like a star , and lay at the very bottom of the chest . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her 
