hector threw a spear at him as he was flying , and struck him with a spear , and the bronze gleamed around him like flashing fire or the rays of the rising sun . fear fell upon hector as he heard , and he made his way to the ships single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be disgraceful to us if we return to jove s bronze - floored mansion on olympus without having fought each other ; therefore come on , you are the younger of the two , swift ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the front ranks clad in full armour to bestride him . as a shepherd picks up a ram s fleece with one hand and finds it no burden , so easily did hector for a while seem as though he would career through the tents and ships of the myrmidons were drawn up in close order round the tents of achilles . his mother went up to him as it were mars himself , plumed lord of battle . from his right shoulder he brandished his terrible spear of pelian ash . asteropaeus failed with both his spears , for he could not wield his spear and keep his horses in hand when alone in the chariot ; at last , however , a comrade , alcimedon , son of laerces son of haemon caught sight of him , and trying to escape . he breathed his last , bellowing like a bull the while , but the living he saved alive , hiding them in his mighty eddies . the great and terrible shield of achilles , which rang out as the spear grazed it , and the achaeans roared applause . as when the rising west wind furs the face of the sea and go to the house of jove . neptune also , lord of the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the 
