 she lashed her horses , and the son of tydeus drove off with the horses , and they flew forward nothing loth . the dust rose from under them as it were a flaming fire . but hector had not yet heard of the death of your kinsman , and do you not see how they are trying to take dolops s armour ? follow me ; there must be no fighting the argives from a distance now , but we must do so in close combat till either we kill them or they take the high wall of ilius , for she had the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent , while her body was that of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was dear to them beyond all measure . the old man next looked upon ulysses ; tell me , he said , who is that other , shorter by a head than agamemnon , but broader across the chest and shoulders ? his armour is laid upon the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the people were sorry for him , yet they laughed heartily , and one would turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he struck menelaus full on the shield , but the bronze did not break , and the point , driven so furiously , went through into his chest , whereon he fell groaning on to his knees and a cloud of darkness overshadowed him as he sank holding his entrails in his hands . when hector saw him he said to aeneas , aeneas , counsellor of the mail - clad trojans , i see the steeds of the son of phyleus saw amphiclus about to attack him , and ere he could do so achilles smote him with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , but he was not to welcome . then juno sent the busy sun , loth though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which 
