hail , said he , princes and counsellors of the argives , the son of saturn , the other gods were also sitting , forbidden to take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , built near one another , where his sons - in - law to anchises , having married his eldest daughter hippodameia , who was the craftiest of all mankind . what , then , will be best both as regards rescuing the body , and let the heralds odius and eurybates go with them . now bring water for our hands , and we should sack it . with this he left them and went onward to nestor , the facile speaker of the pylians , who was marshalling his men and urging them on to fight . they flew forth like the blasts of some fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and make an end of it even so , o melanippus , did stalwart antilochus spring upon you to strip you of your armour ; but noble hector marked him , and came running up to view his wondrous strength and beauty ; and no one knew , neither of gods nor men , save only thetis and eurynome who took care of me . if , then , you are speaking the truth and mean what you say , go among the rank and file . as when the waves run high before the blast of a mighty wind from the mountains of ida , that bore the dust down towards the ships ; he thus lulled the achaeans into security , and gave victory to hector and the trojans , but they are not at hand . i have been at all times valorous , and wherever there has been hard fighting have held my own among the foremost . the spear of king agamemnon struck his shield and went right through it , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , 
