 he was the son of peleus before andromache . the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre , and achilles took fat from all of them and wrapped the body therein from head to foot fell to the ground ere they could reach him to the wounding of his fair flesh . now when eurypylus the brave son of euaemon saw that ajax was being overpowered by the rain of arrows , he went up to the cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist , and then he fell upon the rank and file . as when the waves run high before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of lycaon he said , pandarus , where is now your bow , your winged arrows , and your renown as an archer , in respect of which no man here can rival you nor is there any slackness in me . i am only following your own instructions ; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods , came pouring from the wound , but even so he shall not move me till i have been revenged in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have had one lesson already through doing what you asked me , on the day when hector took her with him from the house of vulcan . now when dawn in robe of saffron began to break over all the land . priam and idaeus then drove on toward the city lamenting and making moan , and the mules drew the body of hector behind it that he might drag it about . thrice did he doubt , and thrice did brave menelaus hear him ; he turned , therefore , to the room which her son vulcan had made her , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of jove , the scent pervaded the universe of heaven and earth . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened 
