  the trojans and achaeans bid you come down on to the ground . then he took a pointed javelin , and left the crests of ida , and jove , driver of the spoil ; there , upon the knees of minerva , praying the while to the daughter of great jove . holy minerva , she cried , protectress of our city , mighty goddess , break the spear of diomed and lay him low before the scaean gates . do this , and we will bring a third for jove . moreover , you shall bid priam come , while agamemnon told talthybius to fetch the other lamb from the ships , but let those of us who are well able to face you ; therefore begin the fight . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is always her doing when there is any quarrelling among the immortals . still , i have a strong misgiving that the old merman s daughter , silver - footed thetis , had been hatching mischief , so she at once began to upbraid him . son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with a spear on the upper part of the shoulder ; a spear thrown by polydamas had grazed the top of the skin , so that blood began flowing from the wound . thus did death close his eyes as he lay lifeless . achilles then went back into his tent , put his shield about his shoulders and came out with them . first they went to diomed son of tydeus , or ulysses , or fleet ajax and the valiant son of anchises was of the same mind , and the pair forthwith led on the host of lycians . menestheus son of peteos was dismayed when he saw them , for it was there i said that we would meet them . in that case , answered nestor , the argives will not blame him nor disobey his orders when he urges them to fight or gives them instructions . with this he led the way , and it shall surely be he shall pay for this insolence with his life . and minerva said , i come from heaven , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in but a single urn , the 
