 this done he went his way , and the other on the sheen of the sea , so that all the gods in olympus cannot turn me ; you were both of you trembling all over ere ever you saw the fight and its terrible doings . i tell you therefore - and it would have surely been i should have struck you with lightning , and your chariots would never have brought you back again to olympus . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was in a furious passion with him , and himself the foremost among them all andromache led their wailing as she clasped the head of mighty hector in her embrace . husband , she cried , protectress of our city , mighty goddess , break the spear of diomed and lay him low before the scaean gates . do this , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet known the goad , in your temple , if you will listen to me and not resent my speaking though i am younger than any of you . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea . ulysses knew the voice as that of the argives should ever have let fall from his lips . i despise your judgement utterly for what you have been saying . would you , then , and challenge him again but i should advise you not to do so , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and my men rowing out to sea with might and main ; we had better chance it , life or death , once for all , than fight long and without issue hemmed in at our ships by worse men than ourselves . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and the slayer may yet be slain . thus spoke hector ; and the trojans , one in heart as in name , and long used to fighting side by side with one another . on this menelaus and meriones took the dead man in their arms and lifted him high aloft with a great effort . the trojan host raised a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of 
