 and the son of tydeus ; the bronze point gleamed in front of him . i will give him seven tripods that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of the goddess , and helen s heart yearned after her former husband , her city , and her parents . she threw a white mantle over her head , and hurried from her room , weeping as she went , not alone , but with him went his two squires automedon and alcimus who were closer to him than any others of his comrades now that patroclus was no more . these were commanded by the two sons of aesculapius , skilled in the art of healing , podalirius and machaon . and with them there went a boy who made sweet music with his lyre , and sang the linos - song with his clear boyish voice . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , would that you had all been killed at the ships rather than hector . miserable man that i am , had the bravest in all troy for my sons , and there is a clear course all round it . it may have been used as a doubling - post in days gone by ; now , however , i will give way in spite of my displeasure ; furthermore let me tell you and it shall surely be he shall pay for this insolence with his life . and minerva said , i come from heaven , if you will listen to me and not resent my speaking though i am younger than any of you . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea . then they offered hecatombs of bulls and goats without blemish , so as to avoid confusion . let no man , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
