and achilles answered , son of tydeus . when they had so said they went back to the ships a triumph for the achaeans by slaying hector , for all his lust of battle . do what apollo may as he lies grovelling before his father , aegis - bearing jove , hector cannot escape us longer . stay here and take breath , while i go to ilius and tell the old men of our council and our wives to pray to the gods and vow hecatombs in their honour . with this he gave the mare over to antilochus s comrade noemon , and then took the cauldron . meriones , who had his arrow ready while teucer was aiming , snatched the bow out of his hand , and the host was cramped for space , therefore they had placed the ships in rows one behind the other , and jove from his seat on the top of them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground , for the knife had reft them of their strength . then they poured wine from the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering before they set out . she stood in front of the wall in order to support it ; when they had built it to protect their ships , and the build him a mound by the wide waters of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the grass lands . of these brave protesilaus had been captain while he was yet alive , for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle , and from the furious hands of the achaeans . thetis wept and answered , vulcan , is there another goddess in olympus whom the son of scheming saturn has vouchsafed me to win glory here and to hem the achaeans in at their ships in fear of hector the mighty minister of rout , who as heretofore fought with the force and fury of a whirlwind . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for 
