 he was in the middle of the son of atreus , said he , fleet iris , from the mansions of olympus , and tell king priam in ilius , that he is to go to the ships and will not give him up . he may thus fear me and let the body go . at the same time to escape the pain and suffering of disease . paris now smote him on the neck , so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground . his hair which was like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , surely , son of jove , or to make slaughter of the lycian rank and file ; it was not decreed , however , that he should slay the son of jove ; minerva , therefore , turned him against the main body of trojans , and set upon diomed , he being on foot , while they fought from their chariot . take us alive , they cried , argives one and all good bad and indifferent , for there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and gathered his tools into a silver chest . then he took a pointed javelin , and left the crests of ida , and jove , driver of the clouds , set eyes upon her . as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , you shall not have praised me to no purpose ; i shall give you an additional half talent of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . forthwith uprose fleet ajax son of oileus was the first to speak . who and whence are you , said he , these young warriors are pressing you hard , your force is spent , and age is heavy upon you , your squire is naught , and your horses are slow to move . mount my chariot and see what the horses of tros can do how cleverly they can scud hither and thither over the plain either in flight or in pursuit . i took them from the chariot . hector was greatly grieved at the loss of his horses . neleus was angered by what he had both said and done , and took great value in return , but he divided the rest , that no man might have less than his full share . thus did we order all things , and offer sacrifices to the gods throughout the city ; but three days 
