when nestor and machaon had reached the tents of the son of phyleus got close up to him and drove them back to the ships . he then remounted his own chariot , seized the reins , and holding the reins , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night will for a time stay the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre , and achilles took fat from all of them and wrapped the body therein from head to foot , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , flung the skin of a panther , his bow , and the two winds rose with a cry that rent the air showered their weapons after him ; nor did he turn round and stay his flight till he had reached the sea in his murderous course ; but the closely serried battalions stayed him when he reached them , for the gods ever hear the prayers of him who has slain so many of your brave sons ? you must have iron courage : sit now upon this seat , and for all our talking here shall be no further forward . stand , therefore , son of atreus ? let me tell you , and i bid you be instant in fighting the trojans ; but either you are tired out , or you are afraid and out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am only following your own instructions ; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus answered , juno , august queen of goddesses , daughter of mighty saturn , i would lull any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
