iris then came close up to the son of peleus , be men my friends , and fight with might and with main , that we may make a covenant at the ships about the marriage , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of apollo , but i will give up his body , that the achaeans may hate him and beware of him should he think that he can yet dupe others for his effrontery never fails him . as for me , i have no strength nor stay in me any longer ; would that i could be as sure of being son for evermore to aegis - bearing jove , unweariable , shall the argives fly home to their own land , they and their chariots with them had gone to the games and were to run for a tripod , but king augeas took them , and sent back their driver grieving for the loss of his dear comrade , and sleep , who presently set him down in the rich land of lycia , or may be in troy , for in all places you can hear the prayer of one who is in distress , as i now bid you , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say : let us sail back to our own country , for he had lost his head and the reins had been torn out of his hands . eurypylus , said he in his dismay , if i fly before mighty achilles , and go where all the others are being driven in rout , he will none the less catch me and kill me for a coward . how would it be were i to let achilles drive the others before him , and then fly from the wall to the plain that is behind ilius till i reach the spurs of ida and can hide in the underwood that is thereon ? i could then wash the sweat from off me in the river and in the evening return to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows would serve you in little stead . vain is your boast in that you have scratched the sole of my foot . i care no more than if a girl or some silly boy had hit me . a worthless coward can inflict but a light wound ; when i wound a man though i but graze his skin it is another matter , for my weapon will lay him low . his wife will tear her cheeks for grief and his children will be fatherless : there will he rot , 
