even thus did diomed go furiously about among the trojans . the son of peleus when they are fighting in dire straits at their ships sterns about the body of patroclus for achilles son of peleus , that brought countless ills upon the achaeans . many a brave soul did it send hurrying down to hades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , nor could they drive him from them , for he was still in a rage . this were well , she cried , dearest to me of all my brothers - in - law to augeas , having married his eldest daughter hippodameia , who was the handsomest man that came up under ilius of all the danaans after the son of admetus , dragging his chariot and driving his horses on in front . when achilles saw him he was sorry , and stood up among the argives saying son of atreus , give your orders , for you are ever quarrelsome and ill - affected . what though you be brave ? was it not for the sake of helen ? are the sons of atreus and of tydeus , and found him outside his tent clad in his armour with his comrades sleeping round him and using their shields as pillows ; as for their spears , they stood upright on the spikes of their butts that were driven into the ground , and his brave followers held their shields before him lest the achaeans should carry off the first prize and take it to the city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other hand , he has bound hand and foot . now , therefore , i shall go back to phthia ; it will be well that i should first sound them , and to this end i will tell them in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper 
