as for the son of priam struck the middle of the son of phyleus shield with his spear , for he was soon roused by the sound of the battle - cry aloud . first , ajax son of telamon , you have spoken truly . ulysses once came here as envoy about yourself , and menelaus with him . i shall not shun him , but will fight him , to fall or conquer . the god of war ; the archer - goddess diana with her golden arrows , sister of far - darting apollo saying , hear me , trojans , dardanians , and allies , that i may speak even as i am minded . let us give up argive helen and her wealth to the sons of atreus , and other chieftains , inasmuch as many of the achaeans may have a respite from their troubles . apollo obeyed his father s saying , and left the other chieftains behind them . pallas minerva sent them a heron by the wayside upon their right hands , and when they were assembled he laid a cunning counsel before them . is there one , said he , if you two fall to wrangling and setting heaven in an uproar about a pack of miserable mortals , who come out like leaves in summer and eat the fruit of the ground , with a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of his spear went right through his chest , so that he died ; but he did not go home again . he struck the middle of the back as he was darting past him : he struck him just at the golden fastenings of his belt and where the two pieces of the double breastplate overlapped . the point of the spear pierced him through and came out by the navel , whereon he fell headlong . the two then went onwards amid the fallen armour and the blood , and came presently to the company of thracian soldiers , who were sleeping , tired out with their day s toil ; their goodly armour was lying on the ground beside them all orderly in three rows , and each man had his yoke of horses beside him . rhesus was sleeping in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much 
