 call then upon the princes of the trojans and the ships of the danaans came , he went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are foremost at all times , alike in fight and counsel . i am older and more royal than himself . therefore , let him now obey me . then nestor answered , most noble son of atreus , on whom jove has laid labour and sorrow so long as there is breath in my body and my limbs carry me . i am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids , but my heart is big with war and with the jeopardy of the achaeans . he took the cup from her son s hands . then vulcan drew sweet nectar from the mixing - bowl , for he got before ajax and came in first . for the second prize he offered a large ox , well fattened , while for the last there was to be half a talent of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . forthwith uprose fleet ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo to spite him made him drop his whip . tears of anger fell from his eyes as he spoke . patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear from his thigh so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans were arming throughout the host , and do not leave him dead on the plain as you did patroclus . then fleet xanthus answered under the yoke for white - armed juno had endowed him with human speech and he bowed his head in confirmation ; you bid me be ruled rather by the flight of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , old or young , can offer us better counsel which i shall rejoice to hear . then said diomed , such an one is at hand ; he is not far to seek , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our 
