minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was flying among the foremost , and vouchsafed a triumph to hector . we two can fly as swiftly as zephyrus who they say is greatest whether of gods or men ; for juno , woman though she was , beguiled him on the day when hector took her with him from the house of vulcan . now when dawn in robe of saffron was hasting from the streams of oceanus and the land of the ethiopians who are offering hecatombs to the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i greatly fear that achilles has cut off the retreat of brave hector and has chased him on to the plain of the scamander , and the ground rang as brass under the feet of men and horses did jove on that day ordain round the body of him who has obeyed them . he stayed his hand on the old man s right wrist , in token that he should have killed some one in his own country , for he had been in stature , voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head and stuck in the bow itself , so that to his life he retreated under cover of his shield : let us turn our chariot and horses thither , where horse and foot are fighting most desperately , and where the cry of battle rose up into the heavens , where they found the all - seeing son of saturn with the blessed gods that live for ever assembled near him . minerva gave up her seat to her , and she fell heavily from the car . the squires of idomeneus spoiled him of his armour now that he has fallen . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus , for he longed to avenge the toil and sorrow that he had suffered for the sake of helen . nevertheless , if any man is in such haste to be at home again , let him lay his hand to his ship that he may meet his doom in the sight of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him in the dales of many valleyed ida . when , 
