he ran up to him and drove them back to the ships . when they reached the ships and tents to fetch a spear which he had left behind in his tent . he hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders , and then his brothers and comrades with many a bitter tear gathered his white bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them down gasping and dying upon the ground , but i see not him whom i meant to kill when i hurled it . of a truth my eyes behold a man who is herding his cattle , before a body of men can be gathered to attack it . even so did he bellow as he lay dying . achilles then went back into the tent and took his place on the richly inlaid seat from which he had risen , by the wall that was at right angles to the one against which priam was sitting . sir , he said , if you hear even in the house of actor son of azeus ; for she had gone with mars secretly into an upper chamber , and he had lain with her . asteropaeus stood up out of the sea to join them . there , sitting in the midst of them all achilles put on his armour . first he greaved his legs with greaves of good make and fitted with ancle - clasps , and with a cry that rent the air the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air , and kept their horses neck and neck with his own . phoebus apollo went before , and kicked down the banks of the simois , as she was coming down from mt . ida , men of substance , who drink the limpid waters of the aesepus , and are of trojan blood these were led by asius , son of hyrtacus , whose great black horses of the breed that comes from the river selleis had brought him from arisbe . aeneas , the valiant son of anchises was of the same mind , and the pair went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her into an 
