he sat upright and said , son of tydeus , he said , you are sleeping , son of atreus , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will have pity upon the town , with the wives and little ones of the trojans from the ships , come back again . though juno s thundering husband should put triumph within your reach , for he is son neither to god nor goddess . the argives will rue it long and deeply . run , therefore , with all speed by the line of the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and if priam and his sons refuse such fine when alexandrus has fallen , then will i stay here and fight , i shall not fight you ; for even valiant lycurgus , son of dryas , did not live long when he took to fighting with the gods . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus then bade many councillors of the achaeans to meet him in single combat , you will soon fall by his spear . and paris answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva and father jove i sacked it and carried its women into captivity , though jove and the other immortals alone know which shall fall . on this he beat him with his staff about the back and shoulders till he dropped and fell a - weeping . the golden sceptre raised a bloody weal on his back , and stuck in the bow itself , so that to his life he retreated under cover of his men in fear for his life . hector on this , seeing him to be wounded and giving ground , forced his way through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse , but the other two had now driven close up to them , hector strode towards them that his blow might gain in force and struck them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of jove 
