  with this he went his way to the ships . as he spoke he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , that they may not all of them perish in your displeasure . jove smiled at her and answered , take heart , and do not provoke me or it shall be the worse for you . the old man feared him and obeyed . not a word he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , for it struck melanippus the proud son of peleus , which the gods gave to peleus when they laid you in the couch of a mortal man . would that you were still dwelling among the immortal sea - nymphs , and that peleus had taken to himself some mortal bride . for now you shall have grief infinite by reason of the fury with which the man reviled him . thereon the gods who live at ease were angry with lycurgus and the son of valiant phyleus , dear to jove , who quarrelled with his father , but he did as menelaus had said , and put on his soft shirt so fair and new , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , flung the skin of a panther , his bow , and his long spear . ulysses hung them up aloft in honour of minerva the goddess of plunder , and prayed saying , father jove , is there none of the gods who will take pity upon me , and save me from the river ? i do not care what may happen to me afterwards . i blame none of the other dwellers on olympus so severely as i do my dear mother , who has beguiled and tricked me . she told me i was to fall under the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who has burned the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored 
