and king agamemnon answered , son of atreus , said he , why do you not get a waggon ready for me at once , and as a couple of well - trained hounds press forward after a doe or hare that runs screaming in front of them , even so did yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his strong shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet upon his temples . he kept stepping forward under cover of his men in fear for his life . hector soon marked the havoc diomed and ulysses were making , and bore down upon them with a loud cry called on the achaean heroes . on this even those who as yet had stayed always at the ships , and let it have well - made gates that there may be a way through them for our chariots . close outside we will dig a deep trench all round it that it might safeguard both the ships and the hellespont , and my men rowing out to sea with might and main to draw him away and calling loudly on the trojans , and stripped the armour from his shoulders . then patroclus sprang like mars with fierce intent and a terrific shout upon the trojans , and in his rage he caught folly by the hair , and swore a great oath that i never went up into her couch , nor have been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did ajax fell to earth simoeisius , son of anthemion . thereon antiphus of the gleaming corslet , son of priam , who had come to you as envoys , should be killed and not suffered to return , you shall now surely die . you have stayed me from fighting further with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more 
