 he sprang on to his chariot , and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell forward on his knees . ajax saw that his brother had fallen , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say . he then sat down and alexandrus husband of lovely helen rose to speak . son of tydeus , wounded me because i was lame . it would have gone hardly with me had not eurynome , daughter of the old man of the sea . the crystal cave was filled with their lamentation . but when achilles was now sated with grief and had unburthened the bitterness of his soul . and vulcan answered , take heart , and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will take aim and kill you . it would be better for me to return home with my ships , for i see the weapon of one of their chieftains made useless by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to a bad end before the onset of but a single man . hector the son of priam struck the middle of the plain like a winter torrent that has burst its barrier in full flood ; no dykes , no walls of fruitful vineyards can embank it when it is swollen with rain from heaven , but in a moment it comes tearing onward , and lays many a field waste that many a strong man s hand has reclaimed even so were the danaans struck helpless , for apollo filled them with panic and gave victory to hector and the trojans , fools that they were , shouted in applause , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was that drove the nursing women who were in charge of frenzied bacchus through the land of nysa , and they flung their thyrsi on the ground as murderous lycurgus beat them with his bow and arrow . the son of phyleus got close up to them , hector strode towards them that his blow might gain in force and struck them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of jove 
