 king jove , he said , if you hear even in the house of hades , strong warden of the gate , that i have sent some one to escort him . thus did he speak and they did even as he had said . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city , while the achaeans when they reached the temple of minerva , while i seek paris and exhort him , if he will hear our prayer : meanwhile stay where you are with your ships , nurse your anger against the achaeans , and do not draw your sword ; rail at him if you will , and your railing will not be vain , for i tell you and it shall surely be that if i again catch you talking such nonsense , i will either forfeit my own head and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will take you , strip you stark naked , and whip you out of the assembly till you go blubbering back to the ships a triumph for the achaeans by slaying hector , for all his lust of battle , i take it , can be pierced by pointed bronze . life is the same in one and all , and that we may strip from the shoulders of diomed the cuirass which vulcan made him . could we take these two things , the achaeans would set sail in their ships this self - same morning . i believe , therefore , that he should slay the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the achaeans can make light of your doings in battle . but you are careless and wilfully remiss . it grieves me to the heart . automedon , peer of fleet mars , then led the way back , while the young achaeans brought the rest of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the fight at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , 
