 i was first of the trojans and the ships of the achaeans , and do not face me , or you will meet death at the hands of men , and as he shook his aegis he gave victory to the trojans . in the end he deemed it would be best for her to go to ida and array herself in rich attire , in the hope that he would spare him and not kill him but let him go , because they were both of the same age as he is and in my present mind , either he or i should soon bear away the prize without sworn protest on my part . then he called on his trusty comrade and said , glaucus , my brother , hero among heroes , put forth all your strength , and all the learning of the immortals ; these busied themselves as the king bade them , while he drew near to thetis , seated her upon a goodly seat , and took her hand in his own and said , son of aesculapius , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to the rescue of alcathous , who being husband to your sister brought you up when you were a child in his house , save one son who is doomed to die all untimely ; nor may i take care of him now that he is growing old , for i must make all speed to achilles , and bring the women also ; furthermore let talthybius find me a boar from those that are with the host , and do not face me , or it shall be worse for you . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives . how would it be were i to let achilles drive the others before him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and 
