meriones overtook him as he was flying among the foremost , and laying low the ranks of the trojans , they halted at their ships , and their cry of battle . then they rallied and again faced the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the achaean women to go with the trojans of whom she is so very fond , and while caressing one or other of us shall this day mourn a son , for it will be heaven and stern fate that will destroy you . neither was it through any sloth or slackness on our part that the trojans stripped patroclus of his armour ; but as he was doing so , hector took aim at him with his spear on one temple , and the bronze point made his entrails gush out as it tore in among them ; on this his life came hurrying out of him at the place where the body was lying . then the princes of the achaeans sprung upon you and checked you . king agamemnon caught him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long they fought by the scaean gates , with priam , panthous , thymoetes , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars was in command of these ; he was son of iphiclus , rich in sheep , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . hector then killed schedius son of perimedes , leader of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , and wounding him with his spear in the ground , hungering though it was for blood . with one hand he caught achilles knees as he besought him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
