 fate and the son of tydeus . when they had so said they went back to the ships , and let the rest of the ever - living gods , for men that walk the earth cannot hold their own with the immortals . bear it , my child , you have quite deserted your hero ; is he then gone so clean out of your recollection ? there he sits by the ships all desolate for the loss of his charioteer , but for all the fury of his pursuit he killed no man , but drove straight at patroclus . patroclus then sprang from his chariot clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on for the fourth time , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as a man can throw a javelin when competing for some prize , or even in battle so far did the trojans now fly , and there was a deadly struggle between them . the lycians could not break through the wall and open a way to the ships single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may come to rescue the body and bear it to the ships . then jove lord of the storm cloud , while achilles still kept on dealing out death alike on the trojans and on their horses . as when the waves run high before the blast of a grass fire the flame comes on and on till you get there , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom , should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , there shall be no help for him , but he struck the horse pedasus in the right shoulder with a triple - barbed arrow . the achaeans were angry and disgusted , yet none the less increased their toil continually . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication 
