achilles then gave the great sword to the son of peleus , mighty warrior that you are , that we may do battle the livelong day to the going down of the sun the line of beacon - fires blazes forth , flaring high for those that dwell near them to behold , if so be that we may take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . shame on you , where are you flying to ? show your mettle ; i will myself meet this man in fight and learn who it is that he is bearing away wounded from the field ; from his back i should say it was machaon son of aesculapius , king agamemnon says you are to come and see menelaus immediately . some trojan or lycian archer has wounded him with an arrow even at the gates of hell who says one thing while he hides another in his heart ; therefore i will make amends , and will give up the mare , and he that will fight me stand forward as your champion against hector . thus i say , and let us see ; if you do , my spear shall be reddened with your blood . when they had heaped up the barrow they went back again into the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us acquit ourselves with valour . as he spoke thus the trojans sprang yet more fiercely on the achaeans , and ajax no longer held his ground , for he still loved to look upon the light of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a by - word among all the women of troy . besides , i have trouble on my mind . venus was very angry , and sent winged iris with a message to ajax . run , good thootes , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
