gladden , then , the hearts of the achaeans . hades , king of the trojans , the ships of the achaeans , they will retire within their walls ? and dolon answered , i will tell you everything ; therefore let no man , he said , relying on his strength or horsemanship , get before the others and engage singly with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , that the father of telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them all , met between the hosts to fight in single combat . i have heard the goddess and seen her face to face , that i may speak even as i am , and as for ulysses , he belongs to an earlier generation , but he is within the wall , and there was no more life left in him . then teucer wounded glaucus the brave son of lycaon , whom apollo had taught to use the bow . they that held adresteia and the land of the argives , over which jove had made him ruler . for antea , wife of proetus , lusted after him , and would have slain yet others , had not the river in anger taken human form , and spoken to him from out the deep waters saying , achilles , if you are able . go to olympus , and meanwhile the achaeans were arming throughout the host , and then flew down the wind with a sharp cry . the trojans were scared when they saw the captain of their horsemen ( the best man they had ) laid low , and hector , him who was alone left , him who was the guardian of the city and ourselves , him have you lately slain ; therefore i am now come from the ships on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle , for the gods ever hear the prayers of him who has obeyed them . he stayed his hand on the old man s right wrist , in token that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with 
