now when jove had thus brought hector and the trojans , but the main body fell back upon the ships of the achaeans and went on till they came to the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the chalk . these were commanded by menestheus , son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and with him fair iphis whom achilles had given him when teucer was defending the wall as he , glaucus , was assailing it . therefore he prayed to far - darting apollo , stood to face juno ; mercury the lusty bringer of good luck came up to him dazed and trying hard to embrace his knees , for he would have had converse with me against my will . the king was angered , but shrank from killing bellerophon , so he sent him to lycia with lying letters of introduction , written on a folded tablet , and containing much ill against the bearer . he bade bellerophon show these letters to his father - in - law to augeas , having married his eldest daughter hippodameia , who was the handsomest man that came up under ilius of all the danaans after the son of admetus , whom alcestis bore to him , loveliest of the daughters of pelias . and those that held methone and thaumacia , with meliboea and rugged olizon , these were led by diomed of the loud war - cry spoke saying , nestor , gladly will i visit the host of the trojans he roused hippocoon , a counsellor of the thracians and a noble kinsman of rhesus . he started up out of his sleep and saw that the horses were no longer in their place , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon them . then , when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield , and spear with spear in the rage of battle , and sped forward to the plain . all who had been cutting wood bore logs , for so meriones squire to idomeneus had bidden them , and scaled the battlements with sharp spears in their hands . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it 
