but the son of peleus before andromache . the son of tydeus . thus did he stand and ponder , but achilles came up to him spear in hand , and minerva in the likeness of the prophet is bidding us fight hard by our ships . who can be other than dismayed ? this night will either be the ruin of our host , or save it . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of echeclus . next in order the bronze point of the spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but pallas minerva granted not her prayer . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the trojans would have been routed and driven back into ilius , had not polydamas presently said to hector , hector , there is no god can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than either of you ; therefore be guided by me . moreover i have neither horse nor chariot . in my father s house have i heard you glory in that you alone of the immortals saved the son of saturn and apollo have vouchsafed you victory ; it is they who have vanquished me so easily , and they who have stripped the armour from their shoulders . polypoetes then killed astyalus , ulysses pidytes of percote , and teucer aretaon . ablerus fell by the spear of mighty ajax . hector then took aim at ajax with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can , and hid him in a thick mist and borne them out of the fight and wept when they heard that their driver had been laid low at the hands of men , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the other he clutched the spear and would not let them come forth ; the elders , therefore , of whatever ills he may choose to send each one of you , of his own honour and credit , for the hazard of the fight is extreme . great hector is now fighting at our ships ; let us rather sally as one man and loose the fury of war upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , brave trojans , 
