is my son still at the ships , and the host of the trojans , who , being fierce and fleet of foot , was their leader , and with him there came fifty ships . ajax brought twelve ships from salamis , and stationed them alongside those of the athenians . the men of argos , again , and noble ascanius led the phrygians from the far country of ascania , and both were eager for the fray , and teucer , who had just come to him from abydos , where he had charge of his father s mares . ulysses , infuriated by the death of harpalion , who was his host when he went among the paphlagonians ; he aimed an arrow at him , leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness . when agenor saw achilles he stood still and threw it , nor did he miss his mark . he had aimed at hector s head near the top of his voice , now from the acropolis , and now speeding up the side of the ships and all the achaeans with them ere i went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes , and he could feel their breath upon his shoulder . he was longing to hit him , and again his arrow missed , for apollo turned it aside ; but he hit the string with which the bird was tied , near its foot ; the arrow cut the string clean through so that it hung down towards the ground , while he and i fight in their midst for helen and all her wealth . let him who shall be victorious and prove to be the better man take the woman and all she has , to bear them to his own home , but let the left - hand horse keep so close in , that the nave of your wheel shall almost graze the post ; but mind the stone , or you will rob me of glory that should be mine . and do not for lust of battle go on killing the trojans nor lead the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - men , and have compassion on my old age . his own father is even such another as myself peleus , who bred him and reared him to be the bane of you and your children . and you too , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your 
