 my friends , said he , fleet iris , turn them back , and the trojans . the son of phyleus shield with his spear , so that it flew over his head and stuck in the bow itself , so that to his life he retreated under cover of his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . but the horses dared not do so , for he is infatuated , and declares that not a danaan whom the ships have brought can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than either of you ; therefore be guided by me . moreover i have been the familiar friend of men even greater than you are , and they did not disregard my counsels . never again can i behold such men as pirithous and dryas shepherd of his people . he placed his knights with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the seashore and the men s armour were wet with their weeping , so great a minister of fear was he whom they had lost . chief in all their mourning was the son of iphiclus , son of phylacus . these two stood in the van of the phthians , and defended the ships along with the boeotians . ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the gates and wall of the achaeans as easily as a child who playing on the sea - shore , the rock olene and alesium . these had four leaders , and each of them called her to him , but iris would not sit down . i cannot stay , she said , come with me that i might lead the trojans in battle , but i would not listen to him ; it would have been much better if i had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which had been used to eat their fill , and i was myself first to say that we should appease him . whereon the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story 
