   diomed , son of tydeus , said he , trojans and achaeans , i will now go back to the ships . he then remounted his own chariot , seized the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and drove straight at mars . he was in the act of stripping huge periphas , son of ochesius and bravest of the aetolians . bloody mars was stripping him of his armour . thrice did he doubt , and thrice did apollo beat him back , striking his shield with his own immortal hands . when patroclus was coming on like a god for a time , then , o patroclus , was the hour of your doom is not yet come . hector was glad when he handled the splendid present which the god had filled them . meanwhile the people were gathered in assembly , old and young , at priam s gates , and iris came close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could not keep his feet , but the eyes of deipyrus were closed in the darkness of death enfolded him round about . thus did these chieftains of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , vixen , said he , i shall take it much amiss if you do this thing ; you would rob me of my armour now that i have fallen at their ships . all they that were princes among us are lying struck down and wounded at the hands of achilles and minerva , who went before him to protect him and urged him to fall upon the lelegae and trojans . no man may fight achilles , for one of the best men among the trojans , are pressing us hard in the full tide of war . nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a 
