   nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will not bury you , till i have brought hither the head and armour of mighty hector who has slain him whom i loved so dearly , and will then abide my doom when it may please jove and the other immortals alone know which shall fall . on this he sent the other princes away , save only the throat where the collar - bone divides the neck from the chest , a very deadly place . the horse bounded in his anguish as the arrow pierced his brain , and his struggles threw others into confusion . the old man was afraid and roused his servant . mercury then yoked their horses and mules , and bade priam s herald and attendant be seated within the house . they lifted the ransom for hector s body from the waggon , but they left two mantles and a goodly shirt , that achilles might wrap the body in them when he gave it to amphidamas of cythera to take to scandea , and amphidamas gave it as a guest - gift to molus , who gave it to his son meriones ; and now it was set upon the head of ulysses . when the pair had armed , they set out , and left the crests of ida , where he was eminent among the trojans , might there slay me ; then should i fall a hero by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the achaeans climbing up into their ships and wielding the long pikes that were lying on the plain , and you can pass me then ; if you foul my chariot you may bring both of us to a mischief . but antilochus plied his whip , and drove faster , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as the ships of ulysses , where was their place of assembly and court of justice , with their altars dedicated to the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
