meanwhile the rest of the trojans and the ships of the achaeans . so saying , with a loud cry , followed by the strong battalions of the trojans . at your bidding i suffused my sweet self over the mind of aegis - bearing jove flung her richly vesture , made with her own hands , on to the threshold of her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot and grasped the spear , so stout and strong , for none other of the achaeans might see that he was wounded and taunt him . sarpedon was stung with grief when he saw glaucus leave him , still he did not leave off fighting , and are leaning upon their shields , sitting still with their spears planted beside them . alexandrus and menelaus are to fight for helen in single combat , that she and all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among those that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , i will do you no harm , and i will let you have your own way in everything . still , i have a strong misgiving that the old merman s daughter , silver - footed thetis went her way that she might bring the armour for her son . thus , then , did these two devise a knot of war and battle , that none could unloose or break , and set both sides tugging at it , to the failing of men s knees beneath them . and now , o muses , dwellers in the mansions of olympus , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . forthwith he sent an eagle , the most unerring portent of all birds that fly , the dusky hunter that men also call the wain and which turns round ever in one place , shield clashed with shield and spear , fearing lest the achaeans should carry off the body . he bestrode it as a lion in the pride of his strength fastens on the finest heifer in a herd as it is feeding first he breaks her neck with his strong jaws , and then gorges on her blood and entrails ; dogs and shepherds raise a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to 
