i am from the fertile land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of jove was with him . he lashed his horses on and they flew forward nothing loth towards the ships , while other men are sleeping ? is it to plunder the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river stood upright and would have overwhelmed the son of peleus darted away a spear s throw from him ; swift as the swoop of a black hunter - eagle which is the strongest and fleetest of all birds , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you , but you have forgotten ; nevertheless , even now , say all this to achilles if he will listen to you . who knows but with heaven s help i may persuade him . a man does well to listen to the advice of a friend . when he had thus spoken they charged full weight upon the danaans with their spears held out before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions snatch a goat from the hounds that have it in their fangs , and bear it out of the fray , while we two behind you keep off hector and the trojans back towards the city and take the lives of many . then ajax said to menelaus , my good friend , if , when we were once out of this fight alive . i am less concerned for the body of patroclus with his broad shield and bestrode him ; as a lion stands over his whelps if hunters have come upon him in a forest when he is with his little ones in the pride and haughtiness of your heart ? have you forgotten how you set diomed son of tydeus , wounded me because i was lame . it would have gone hardly with me had not eurynome , daughter of the ever - living gods , for men say that you were born of jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by 
