but the son of peleus . achilles will then send his comrade patroclus into battle , and hector will kill him in front of the fire , and tin , with silver and gold , were all bedrabbled with blood . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did achilles make straight for hector with all his might , while hector fled under the trojan wall as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and as a couple of well - trained hounds press forward after a doe or hare that runs screaming in front of them all two men put on their armour each on his own side of the ring , and immediately fell to ; heavily indeed did they punish one another and lay about each other , and neither side would give way . many a pointed spear fell to ground and many a winged arrow sped from its bow - string about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his breast and kill him . he hurried away when he had thus spoken he took with him in his ships to troy would that i had died ere he did so twenty years are come and gone since i left my home and came from over the sea , and sorely did the achaeans miss him . then jove said to juno his sister - wife , so , queen juno , you have gained your end , and have roused fleet achilles . one would think that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his horses and said , take heart , and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
