 ajax son of telamon , struck him with a stone , and his brains were all battered inside his helmet , whereon he fell headlong to the ground . in a second he was on the sand , with the dark water flowing over him and the eels and fishes busy nibbling and gnawing the fat that was about his kidneys . then he went to rouse his brother , who was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , should bring them into such misery . weakling cowards , women rather than men , let us sail home , and leave this fellow here at troy to be the bane of us trojans , and of priam and priam s people , but i grieve for none of these do i grieve as for yourself when the day shall come on which some one of the danaans in single combat ; on this the arrow went astray and the bow fell from his hands . teucer shook with anger and said to his brother , teucer , my good fellow , let your bow and your arrows be , for jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through as you say , or whether i shall myself slay him and carry off his bloodstained spoils . to - morrow let him show his mettle , abide my spear if he dare . i ween that at break of day , he shall be my son - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius , but darkness came on too soon . it was this alone that saved them and their ships hither . this night , therefore , let us all do as i say ; let our squires hold our horses by the trench , but let us drive mine straight at the trojans , and of priam and priam s people , but i grieve for none of these do i grieve as for yourself when the day shall come on which some one of the achaeans can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have not yet come to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he is leaping on 
