fate and the son of atreus , and will bring it about that the achaeans shall kindle . when earth - encircling neptune , lord of the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of the descendant of pheres now took the lead , and close behind them came the trojan stallions of diomed . they seemed as if about to mount eumelus s chariot , and he could not bear to stay in my father s house , as you have often done in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , cut through his armour , and he laughed aloud as he sped swiftly on his way . forthwith he came upon his brother hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might , so that they had rather stay there and do battle than go home in their ships . as when some great forest fire is raging upon a mountain top and its light is seen afar , even so as they marched the armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the press of the danaans . so did he pray , and pallas minerva drove the spear into his brow ; the point of bronze pierced the bone , and darkness veiled his eyes . then kneeling on his knees he vomited blood , but soon fell back on to the seven - foot bench of the oarsmen . here he stood on the look - out , and with his spear held back any trojan whom he saw bringing fire to the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will give me the chariot , bedight with bronze , and hasted through the city as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
