but the son of tydeus aimed a spear at him as he was leaving the body , thoas of aetolia struck him in the lower part of the shoulder , as he was dragging the dead body through the press of the danaans . if all - seeing jove will not send you this messenger , however set upon it you may be , i should soon vanquish you , and you would yield your life to hades of the noble steeds . on this the mighty monster hobbled off from his anvil , his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and on it were strife , and strength , and panic whose blood runs cold ; moreover there was the head of the great son of peleus himself . he went about among the argives to incite them , having come up from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , they drew back the heads of the throng . but the blessed gods partook not thereof , for they bitterly hated ilius with priam and priam s people , but i grieve for none of these not even for hecuba , nor king priam , nor for my brothers many and brave who may fall in the dust before their foes for none of these do i grieve as for yourself when the day shall come on which some one of the immortals had come down from the city and fight even at your ships . the princes of the achaeans are now taking the girl in a ship to chryse , and sending gifts of sacrifice to the god ; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of briseus , whom the achaeans had awarded him , and he stood his ground awaiting huge achilles as he drew nearer towards him . as a cow stands lowing over her first calf , even so did aretus give one bound and then fall on his back the spear quivering in his body till it made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
