the cry of battle , and sped forward to the plain . when they were close up with one another , and the hard bronze rattled on their bodies , as they thrust at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in the presence of the immortals , that never would we shield trojans from destruction , not even when all troy is burning in the flames which the achaeans will kindle . as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his armour by the river . the epeans were beleaguering the city and were determined to take it , but ere he could do so achilles smote him with his sword , which became warm with the blood , while death and stern fate closed the eyes of the other . discord was glad as she beheld them , for she was the only god that went among them ; the others were not there , but stayed quietly each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn has set in heaven as a sign to mortal men . about his shoulders he threw his sword , studded with bosses of gold ; it had four handles , on each of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had a double top - rail running all round it which i took from asteropaeus . it will be worth much money to him . he bade his comrade automedon bring the breastplate from his tent , and he did so . the dead hero had had house - dogs ; two of them did achilles slay and threw upon the pyre ; he also put twelve brave sons of noble trojans to the sword and laid them with the rest , for he was largely bribed by alexandrus ; and now agamemnon took his two sons , both in the cloister of the outer court after passing quickly and unperceived through the men on guard and the women servants . i then fled through hellas till i came to fertile phthia , mother of sheep , and to king peleus , who made me welcome and treated me as a father treats an only son who will be heir to all his wealth . he made me rich and set me over much people , establishing me on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held 
