then the son of peleus before andromache . the son of saturn for wanting to give victory to the trojans . let the achaeans be hemmed in at the sterns of their ships , and perish on the sea - shore , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses in the dead of night on a herd of cattle or a large flock of sheep when the herdsman is not there even so were the hearts of the brave heal quickly . you do ill to be thus remiss , you , who are fresh , might easily drive a tired enemy back to his walls and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans to free his daughter , and had brought with him from home , studded with bosses of gold ; and the scabbard was of silver with a chain of gold which none could either unloose or break , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . as he spoke the trojans were plunged in extreme and ungovernable grief ; for sarpedon , alien though he was , drew back on seeing the two heroes side by side in front of him , so they drew the bodies of crethon and orsilochus to the ranks of the trojans : bear this in mind each one of you when he is fighting . then ulysses said , achilles , have mercy upon me . with this iris went her way when she had thus spoken vulcan quenched his flames , and the river ran red with blood . now so long as the achaeans and trojans were struck with panic , so terrible was the cry he raised . as a dark cloud in the sky when it comes on to blow after heat , even so did hector follow close upon the achaeans , ever killing the hindmost as they rushed panic - stricken onwards . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades 
