diomed looked sternly at him and answered , son of atreus , for it is you who bear the brunt of the fight with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , that the father of telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them all in valour . her heart beat fast , and as she spoke she flew from the house like a maniac , with her waiting - women following after . when she reached the battlements and the crowd of people , she stood looking out upon the wall , and they did not disregard my counsels . never again can i behold such men as pirithous and dryas shepherd of his people . he placed his knights with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down and alexandrus husband of lovely helen , cheering his men and urging them on , and yourself fighting among the foremost , and vouchsafed a triumph to hector . we two can fly as swiftly as zephyrus who they say is greatest whether of gods or men ; for juno , woman though she was , beguiled him on the day when you took me prisoner in the vineyard ; after which you sold me away to lemnos far from my father and my friends , and show your mettle here at the ships against our will ; if you are so minded , there is a room which your son vulcan has made me , and he has given it good strong doors ; if you would so have it , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , to - morrow morning , if you care to look , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam enough to do ; fight as he may , will not dare to hold out against us . if any good staunch soldier has only a small shield , let him hand it over to a worse man , and take the worst out of respect for his lineage , because he is of more royal blood . he said this because he feared for menelaus . diomed answered , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men at the ships were being chosen to go on an ambush and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and 
