 ulysses glared at him and answered , son of peleus , foremost champion of the achaeans , whether in war or in other things , or at table . when the princes are mixing my choicest wines in the mixing - bowls ; they poured water over him , and as the winning horse in a chariot race strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain , encouraged by the charge the gods had laid upon him . even thus was menelaus glad when his eyes caught sight of alexandrus , for he deemed that now he should be revenged . he sprang , therefore , from his chariot , clad in his gleaming armour , and crying with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; let us order the main body of the trojan warriors , but as a dun eagle swoops down upon a flock of sheep or goats when he finds them without their shepherd , so did the son of nestor , though the darts fell thickly round him . he was son - in - law . i see not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , sitting in the midst of them with his sceptre and filled their hearts with daring . he made their legs light and active , as also their hands and their feet . then , as soon as he had gone close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . do this , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet felt the goad , in the temple of apollo , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city 
