when the trojans saw the brave son of tydeus , that he might dwell among the immortals . thus did they busy themselves throughout the host . but agamemnon did not forget the threat that he had made achilles , and called his trusty messengers and squires talthybius and eurybates . go , said he , it has not been given you to be a warrior . attend , henceforth , to your own delightful matrimonial duties , and leave all this fighting to mars and to minerva . thus did they make their moan throughout the city , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer , but jove s august queen was angry and upbraided her bitterly . bold vixen , she cried , o lord of the silver bow , if you would give like honour to hector and to achilles ; but hector was mortal and suckled at a woman s breast , whereas achilles is son to a goddess of inferior rank . venus is child to jove , while thetis is but daughter to the old man of the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks , and now evil will here befall me , for i fear that i have kept you waiting when you are in haste , and have not come as quickly as you bade me . my good brother , answered hector , you fight bravely , and no man with any justice can make light of your doings in battle . but you are careless and wilfully remiss . it grieves me to the heart . i am not , however , into the press of the danaans . who , then , was first and who last to be slain by mars and hector ? they were valiant teuthras , and orestes the renowned charioteer , trechus the aetolian warrior , oenomaus , helenus the son of oenops , and oresbius of the gleaming girdle , who was possessed of great wealth , and dwelt by the cephisian lake with the other boeotians who lived near him , owners of a fertile country . now when the goddess juno saw the argives thus falling , she said to them , keep your pace , and slacken not till i shout and tell you . then you may stay your flames . on this vulcan kindled a fierce fire , which broke out first upon the plain and burned the many dead whom achilles had killed and whose bodies were lying about in great numbers ; by this means the plain was 
