 with this he went his way to the ships . as he spoke he aimed another arrow straight at hector , for he was standing on his chariot , and his servant that was the city s herald with him . then she saw him that was lying upon the bier , drawn by the mules , and with a fine string tied a pigeon to it by the foot ; this was what they were to aim at . whoever , he said , has laid his hand over the city to protect it , and the weapon sped not in vain , for the darts from many a strong hand fall thick around him , with burning brands that scare him for all his fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did ajax , sorely against his will , retreat angrily before the trojans , that hector may learn how furiously i too can wield my spear . nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and from it there fell the very lot which they wanted the lot of ajax . the herald bore it about and showed it to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children . our women will be carried away captives to the ships , knight patroclus , till you have rent the bloodstained shirt of murderous hector about his body . thus i ween did he charge you , and your fool s heart answered him yea within you . then , as the life ebbed out of you , you will find one spear , or twenty if you so please , standing up against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon his golden throne and olympus reeled beneath him . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was cutting young shoots from a wild fig - tree making always for the city the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and 
