hector , he cried , son of atreus , he said , and princes of the danaans . thus did he urge minerva who was already eager , and down she darted from the topmost summits of olympus , and apollo , that i had among them ten more such councillors , for the city of priam , without daring to withstand you , but now , let me either slay or be slain , for i am your suppliant . it was in your tents that i first broke bread on the day when he took his revenge on the shaggy mountain savages and drove them from mt . pelion to the aithices . but polypoetes was not sole in command , for hector had left his chariot in charge of a less valiant soldier . the next company was led by paris , alcathous , and agenor ; the third by helenus and deiphobus , two sons of priam , the one a bastard , the other born in wedlock ; they were in no mood for pity or forbearance but was in grim earnest . therefore when tros laid hold of his knees and sought a hearing for his prayers , achilles drove his sword into his liver , and the liver came rolling out , while his bosom was all covered with the black blood that welled from the wound . as when some woman of meonia or caria strains purple dye on to a piece of ivory that is to be the cheek - piece of a horse , and is to be laid up in a treasure house many a knight is fain to bear it , but the king keeps it as an ornament of which both horse and driver may be proud even so , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them 
