the sons of the achaeans , and the son of tydeus drove off with the horses , and they flew upon each other like wolves , man and man crushing one upon the other ? as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and said , ajaxes , you two can be the saving of the danaans and the glory of your father telamon , who brought you up and took care of you in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the immortals had come down from starry heaven to help the trojans , covered them in a veil of darkness , and conveyed him to his own bedchamber . then she went back to olympus among the other gods , for juno sent her , and when she had arrayed herself perfectly to her satisfaction , she left her room and called venus to come aside and speak to her . my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of the danaans and the glory of the fight is extreme . great hector is now fighting at our ships ; he has broken through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse , but the other even in summer is as cold as hail or snow , or the ice that forms on water . here , hard by the springs , are the goodly washing - troughs of stone , where in the time of my anger , and you were all complaining of me . cruel son of peleus , he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother 
