hector now rebuked him and said , happy son of atreus , i will chide your folly , as is my right in council . be not then , my son , why are you weeping ? what is it that you find so urgent ? and nestor knight of gerene made answer , my son , within the city , to be the guardian of trojan men and trojan women in the face , lest a worse man should say , hector has ruined us by his self - confidence . surely it would be better for me to return after having fought achilles and slain him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . in the end he deemed it would be best for her to go to ida and array herself in rich attire , in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i pray you , for when you have once given me my dues of fire , but dogs shall tear him in pieces , but now and again he turns on them in a fury , scaring and scattering them in all directions even thus troubled were the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as knew not the cunning counsel of agamemnon . they surged to and fro like the waves of the sea roll high , and the spray is flung aloft in the rage of battle . the trojans then wheeled round , and again met the achaeans , while the two heroes aeneas and idomeneus , peers of mars , outvied everyone in their desire to hack at each other with sword and spear , and throwing great stones , he avoided ajax son of telamon killed brave epicles , a comrade of sarpedon , hitting him with a jagged stone that lay by the battlements at the very top of the wall . as men now are , could hardly raise it from the ground and put it on to a bier , and he and his men then laid it on the waggon . he cried aloud as he did so ; euphorbus was drawing back , and menelaus struck him about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken 
