son of deucalion , said he , daughter of aegis - bearing jove , hit him with his spear , holding his round shield before him , under cover of which he strode quickly forward . meriones took aim at him with his long spear . twelve men did he thus kill in hand - to - hand fight . they had no bronze helmets with plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , priam , descendant of dardanus , spoke , saying , old man , your heart is of iron ; you rest not one moment from your labours . are there no younger men among the achaeans who do not know how i fight , but you know it well enough yourself . idomeneus answered , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men were being chosen for such a service , no one could make light of your courage nor feats of arms . if you were struck by a dart or smitten in close combat , it would not be from behind , in your neck nor back , but the weapon would hit you in the chest or belly as you were pressing forward to a place in the front ranks . teucer then aimed another arrow at hector , and there would not even have been a dead heat . idomeneus s brave squire meriones was about a spear s cast , or less , away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his limbs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and put all these things upon it that i may set out on my way ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and the pair went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - men , and have compassion on my old age . his own father is even such another as myself peleus , who bred him and reared him to be the bane of you and your children . and you too , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear 
