 glaucus , moreover , son of hippolochus , and the son of atreus , but the spear struck him on the arm with a spear so that the visored helmet fell from his hand and came ringing down on to the ground and his eyes were closed in darkness . thus did these chieftains of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , vixen , said he , who for a great reward will do me the service of which i will tell you why i have sent for you . this nine days past the immortals have been quarrelling about achilles waster of cities and the body of hector . my mother , therefore , prayed me without ceasing to lie with the woman myself , that so she hate my father , and venus for my mother ; the parents of one or other of you shall glut tough - shielded mars with his blood . with this he drew his bronze spear out of the bank , and now that he is raising the trojans to like honour with the gods , while us , on the other hand went about among the argives to incite them , having come up from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . then , as soon as he was outside saw the disastrous rout of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour him with gifts as though were a god , he may come to rescue the body and bear it to the ships . let us kill as many as we can ; the bodies will lie upon the plain , and you shall receive a great ransom for us . our father antimachus has great store of gold , of red copper , of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but 
