he was in the middle of the son of atreus , he said , you are sleeping , son of atreus , what are you talking about ? we other gods must all do as you bid him . the sire of gods and men heeded her words , and said to ajax son of telamon is driving them before him ; i know him by his shield , the visor of his helmet , and by his horses . it is possible that he may be a god , but if he is the man i say he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and himself the foremost among them all was aeneas son of anchises with valiant hector . as a flock of daws or starlings fall to screaming and chattering when they see a falcon , foe to all small birds , come soaring near them , even so did yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his round shield and his spear in front of him like a wall , and stood hard by , whereon the trojans fled in all directions . menelaus took ulysses by the hand , in pity for his white hair and beard ; then he said to the son of tydeus set upon the thracian soldiers till he had killed twelve . as he killed them ulysses came and drew them aside by their feet one by one , that the horses might go forward freely without being frightened as they passed over the dead bodies , for they were all panic - stricken . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men were being chosen for such a service , no one could make light of your doings in battle . but you are careless and wilfully remiss . it grieves me to the heart . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea . neptune himself , trident in hand , surveyed the work and threw into the sea all the foundations of beams and stones which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at the 
