menelaus went up to him and drove them back to the ships , nor could they drive him from them , for he was fighting on foot among the foremost until he lost his life . hector soon marked the havoc diomed and ulysses were making , and bore down upon them with a loud cry , followed by the trojan ranks ; brave diomed was dismayed when he saw them , for it was he that challenged our princes . let him speak first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , ajax , heaven has vouchsafed you stature and strength , and all the learning of the immortals ; these busied themselves as the king bade them , while he drew near to thetis , seated her upon a goodly seat , and took her hand in his own , and his comrades made moan in concert . dear brother , she cried , o lord of the silver bow , you are not obeying the commands of jove who charged you straitly that you should stand by the trojans and pallas minerva for him to fly to when the sea - monster was chasing him from the shore on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may have put an end to the reckless daring which possessed my husband , who would never remain with the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , and they give way before us , still we shall not return in good order by the way we came , but shall leave many a man behind us whom the achaeans will do to death in defence of their ships ; when , however , he stood in their midst and delivered his message . as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
