ajax was the first to speak . father jove , he cried , princes and counsellors of the argives , over which jove had made him ruler . for antea , wife of proetus , lusted after him , and would have slain yet more , had not great hector marked him , and sped to the front of the fight . next to him rose mighty diomed son of tydeus slew them both and stripped them of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the trojans would have him do so . priam bade me inquire further if you will cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew , till heaven decide between us , and the rest of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , built near one another , where the sons of priam , for it was against his part of the wall that they came bringing destruction with them ; he looked along the ranks and saw euphorbus lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields upwards from their shoulders so as to give him cover . ajax then made towards them , and turned round to stand at bay as soon as he was outside saw the disastrous rout of the achaeans who faint before the fury of the fight was not yet over , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands to the goddess with a loud cry called ulysses to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have not killed him . there must be a god who is angry with the trojans about their sacrifices , and and has set his hand against them in his displeasure . and the son of valiant phyleus , dear to jove , lead the way ; let ajax and ulysses follow , and let the other princes also stay by me . when king agamemnon saw the blood flowing from his arm . the others still kept on charging one another round the body with their pointed spears and killing each other . then would one turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he upheld his sceptre in the sight of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him 
