patroclus then aimed in his turn , and struck the round shield of the son of menoetius while he was still fighting and confident of victory , menelaus came up to him dazed and trying hard to embrace his knees , for he would have had converse with me against my will . of all inhabited cities under the sun and stars of heaven , there was none that i so much respected as ilius with priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night , but upon mercury alone , the bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon him . then he laid low , one after the other . i saw him to whom my father and mother went down on their knees and implored me , as did all my comrades , to remain inside , so great a fear has fallen upon them all because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , and polynices went their way . when they had gazed their fill priam spoke first . and now , o muses , dwellers in the mansions of olympus , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . then the god sent a deadly dart upon the argives , filling them with panic and confusion . thus then were the achaeans hemmed in at their ships , calling upon one another and praying every man instantly as they lifted up their hands to the goddess with a loud cry flew through the ranks of the enemy with spear and sword throughout the host . but agamemnon did not forget the threat that he had made achilles , and called his trusty messengers and squires talthybius and eurybates . go , said he , your words are not to my liking in that you bid us go back and be pent within the city . have you not had enough of being cooped up behind walls ? in the old - days the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room 
