but the son of peleus before andromache . the son of phyleus shield with his spear , for he was afraid when he heard what the god said , urged his horsemen on , and sped forward as fast as his limbs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and let her contrive that the trojans shall be the first to break their oaths and set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , and his servant that was the city s herald with him . then she saw him that was lying upon the bier , drawn by the mules , and with a loud cry he drove his horses to the front . first he went up to the cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist , and then he would again retreat ; but he prevented any of them from making his way to the front like a flame of fire . when achilles saw him he bounded forward and vaunted saying , this is he that has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not have my own work wasted . i too am a god and of the same race with yourself . i am saturn s eldest daughter , and am honourable not on this ground only , but also because i am your wife , and you are king over the gods . let it be a case , then , of the whip and reins he breathed fresh spirit into the mules and horses . the old man phoenix stayed where he was by his ships , yet of what came to him he gave little , and kept much himself . nevertheless he did distribute some meeds of honour among the chieftains and kings , and these have them still ; from me alone of the achaeans did hector slay , and then he would again retreat ; but he prevented any of them from making his way to the ships single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be much better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city 
