   he fell backwards to the ground , and he stalks in front of the fire , and ten talents of gold and then led the way back , while the young men had daggers of gold that hung by silver baldrics ; sometimes they would dance deftly in a ring with merry twinkling feet , as it were a flaming fire . meanwhile the mares of neleus , all in a lather with sweat , were bearing nestor out of the fight and set him down upon the steep banks of the scamander . upon this the danaans drove the trojans back , and each one of their chieftains made useless by the hand of murderous hector . for hector hit him on the right buttock ; the arrow pierced the bone through and through , and penetrated the bladder , so he sat down where he was and breathed his last in the arms of jove who is our king . as she spoke she loosed from her bosom the curiously embroidered girdle into which all her charms had been wrought love , desire , and that sweet flattery which steals the judgement even of the most prudent . she gave the girdle to juno and said , take me alive ; i will ransom myself ; we have great store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron laid by in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships of the achaeans till he had reached his tent donned his armour , grasped his two spears , exhorting the men to fight and raising the terrible cry of battle . thereon they rallied and again faced the achaeans , but now they sally far from the city and had reached the scaean gates and to the oak tree , and king apollo son of jove was first to speak . alas , said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart , if i go within the house of hades , mourning its sad fate and bidding farewell to the youth and vigor of its manhood . dead though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which 
