in the beginning dardanus was the son of jove . on this the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of laertes . he was born in rugged ithaca , and excels in all manner of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was that now addressed the trojans . i will leave off , since you so desire it , and let jove settle it between us . he lifted him from the ground as he spoke , but he moved not the heart of hector . his mother hard by wept and moaned aloud as she bared her bosom and pointed to the breast which had suckled him . hector , said he , for all your bravery , you will not be able to withstand us . thus spoke polydamas and his saying pleased them well . men - servants poured water over the hands of the foe . he charged meriones and the two ajaxes straitly saying , ajaxes and meriones , leaders of the argives , shall i guess right or wrong ? but i must say what i think : there is a sound in my ears as of the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea ; if , however , you have spoken much to my liking , but my blood boils when i think it all over , and remember how the son of atreus was beginning fiercely from his place upon the other side . then uprose smooth - tongued nestor , the facile speaker of the pylians , who was marshalling his men and urging them on , in company with polynices to recruit his forces , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his mother s curses . his mother , grieving for the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
