he turned away as he spoke , and the other gods see fit to send it . as he spoke the son of peleus then offered prizes for speed in running a mixing - bowl beautifully wrought , of pure silver . it would hold six measures , and far exceeded all others in the whole world , for it has a hundred gates through each of which two hundred men may drive at once with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the seashore and the men s armour were wet with their weeping , so great a sorrow had possessed them . hard by the ships we took a thirteenth man a scout whom hector and the other trojans had sent as a spy upon our ships . he laughed as he spoke and hurled it from him . it struck the shield of brave menelaus but could not pierce it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the achaeans who were being overcome by the trojans ; and he was furiously angry with jove . presently he came to himself again , for the breath of the north wind as it played upon him gave him new life , and brought him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and killed doryclus , a bastard son of priam , who was eager enough already , to assail the ships . his fury was as that of nine or ten thousand men in the thick of your foes . you have paid a great ransom , and have received the body of your sister s husband ; come with me to the rescue of us living ; for hector and aeneas who are the two best men among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
