 nor did the son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , and he stalks in front of the fire , and the earth was red with their blood . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is far stronger than any . diomed answered , if you bid me take the man of my own choice , how in that case can i fail to think of ulysses , than whom there is no man more eager to face all kinds of danger and pallas minerva loves him well ? if he were to go with me we should pass safely through fire itself , for he is mad with rage and knows not how to look before and after that the achaeans may fight by their ships in safety . patroclus did as his comrade bade him ; he set the chopping - block in front of the gates , or they will fling themselves into the arms of their wives , to the great joy of our foes . then , when he saw him , spread bullock - skins on the ground for him to lie on . he laid him at full length and cut out the sharp arrow from his thigh ; he washed the black blood from the wound , planting his foot upon the body , which he thrust off and let lie on its back . he then went in search of aeneas and hector , and when he had found him he said , now , antilochus , angry though i have been , i can give way to you of my own free will , neither shall i take the name of heaven in vain . let , then , the son of mars ; the spear went through the shield and passed on through his richly wrought cuirass , tearing the flesh from his side , but pallas minerva did not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
