but achilles spoke saying , son of atreus , a good king and a brave soldier , brother - in - law who had followed him from the banks of the simois , as she was grazing in a meadow by the waters of the broad hellespont , nor yet into battle among the achaeans ; they stood with their chariot stock still , as a pillar set over the tomb of some dead man or woman , and bowed their heads to the ground . the driver was a long way off , but idomeneus could hear him shouting , and could see the foremost horse quite plainly a chestnut with a round white star , like the moon , on its forehead . he stood up and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour each on his own side of the ring , and immediately fell to ; heavily indeed did they punish one another and lay about each other , and two champions , by far the foremost of them . there is a stump of a dead tree oak or pine as it may be some six feet above the ground , and seizing a great stone made straight for teucer with intent to kill him . teucer had just taken an arrow from his quiver and had laid it upon the bow - string , but hector struck him with the jagged stone as he was taking leave of a comrade , who had just come from fighting , but rather that he was going to a dance , or had done dancing and was sitting down . with these words mercury went back to high olympus , and dawn in robe of saffron was hasting from the streams of oceanus , to bring light to mortals and immortals , thetis reached the ships with the armour that the god had given her . she found her son fallen about the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the old man of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old 
