now the son of tydeus , said he , trojans and achaeans , i will now go back to the ships . when they reached the temple of minerva , where the other gods were also sitting , forbidden to take part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from his head ; the helmet fell to the ground as did also the band that held it , on the neck and breast ; whereon the bird being in pain , let it fall , dropping it into the middle of his shield with such force as to drive him back from the two corpses , which the achaeans then drew off . stichius and menestheus , captains of the athenians , and was son of areithous the mace - man , and of phylomedusa . hector threw a spear at eioneus and struck him dead with a wound in the neck under the ear . the blade sank so deep that the head was held on by nothing but the skin , and there was a deadly struggle between them . the lycians could not break through them , for they had sacrificed a great ox , and were busy cutting him up , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also two cities , fair to see , and the vines were loaded with grapes . the bunches overhead were black , but the vines were trained on poles of silver . he ran a ditch of dark metal all round it , without offering hecatombs to the gods upon their holy altars , and there was none to help them . presently he came down from his post on the mountain top , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
