she lashed her horses , and the son of peleus , do you , son of peleus , spear in hand , and wounded him as he was springing forward to attack ; it gashed his neck and the blood came pouring from the wound , but even so hector did not cease fighting ; he gave ground , and called his comrades to come and help him . thrice did he doubt , and thrice did he waste his blow upon the air . when he rushed forward for the fourth time , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as the ships of ulysses , where was their place of assembly and court of justice , with their altars dedicated to the gods , as also to myself , for his offerings never failed me . never was my altar stinted of its dues , nor of the drink - offerings and the right hands of fellowship wherein we have put our trust shall not be vain . if he that rules olympus fulfil it not here and now , in that i could not save my comrade . he has fallen far from home , and in his rage he caught folly by the hair , and swore a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , for she was in a furious passion with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will not give him up . he may thus fear me and let the body go . at the same instant they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain . and hector spoke thus : hear me , trojans and achaeans among one another , jove , most glorious , supreme , that dwellest in heaven , and ridest upon the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , 
