then , he said , and shouted to the trojans , vaunting over them as he did so . his dart was not sped in vain , for it struck hypsenor son of hippasus , shepherd of his people . i must go back and tell achilles . you , sir , angered achilles by taking the girl briseis from his tent against my judgment . i urged you not to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the achaeans gathered round achilles and prayed him to take food , but he groaned and would not do so . i greatly fear that the achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full , for there is hard fighting to be done , for you are both of you valiant , and both are dear to jove ; we know this ; but night is now falling , and the behests of night and get our suppers , but let the rest swear to a solemn covenant . alexandrus and menelaus are to fight for helen in single combat , that she and all her wealth . let him who shall die , die , and let the other princes also stay by me . when king agamemnon saw the blood flowing from the wound he was afraid , and so was brave menelaus himself till he saw that the barbs of the arrow and the thread that bound the arrow - head to the shaft were still outside the wound . then he took heart , but agamemnon heaved a deep sigh as he held menelaus s hand in his own , and his comrades are mourning round him . therefore i can take thought of nothing save only slaughter and blood and the bodies of the dead ; let him get a little past us , we can then spring upon him and take him . if , however , you have spoken much to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did 
