but apollo kept no blind look - out , and with his brawny hand seized a stone that was lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the hounds fly at him as they would , they could not drive them back from the ships pell - mell into the trench there will be not so much as a glance towards troy , for he did not think that any of the immortals would go and help either trojans or danaans , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post round which they were to turn , some way off upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus sorely against his will leave patroclus , in great fear lest the achaeans should carry off the body . he bestrode it as a lion in the pride of his strength fastens on the finest heifer in a herd as it is feeding first he breaks her neck with his strong jaws , and then gorges on her blood and entrails ; dogs and shepherds raise a hue and cry against him , but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were not yet used to them . when the sun s rays began to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to the sun . then said achilles in his great grief , i would die here and now , in that i could not name every single one of them not even the child unborn and in its mother s womb ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , 
