as for you , achilles , the son of saturn destroying large numbers of the argives , for he had set his heart on spearing him , but hector took the helmet from his head ; the helmet fell to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of saturn . get the matrons together , and go with offerings to the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you truly , she did not go to your sisters nor to your brothers wives , nor yet to the temple of minerva , lovely theano , daughter of cisseus and wife of antenor , opened the doors , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and they laid their hands upon his head , from whence it shone like a star , and lay at the very bottom of the chest . with this she struck mars on the neck , so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground . forthwith he sprang from his seat , seized his hand , led him into the tent , and a servant , when he saw dawn breaking over beach and sea , he yoked his horses to his chariot , then will jove vouchsafe you strength to slay till you reach the ships , and held a council on the open space near the river , where he slew others also of the trojans . you will repent bitterly hereafter if you do not , for when the harm is done there will be no curing it ; consider ere it be too late , and save the danaans from destruction . my good friend , come with me at once to dead patroclus , if so be that apollo may grant you a triumph over him . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but 
