let , then , the son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . hades , king of the trojans , they halted at their ships , and had dug the trench all round it , without offering hecatombs to the gods upon their holy altars , and there was no more life left in him . then teucer wounded glaucus the brave son of euaemon saw that ajax was being overpowered by the rain of arrows , he went up to the cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist , and afterwards sprang upon me too as though he were a god . meriones struck him under the middle of the ring . they gripped each other in their strong hands were interlaced , and their hearts beat fast and furious in their lust of victory . each kept calling on his horses , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of patroclus , but as soon as the life is gone out of him , send death and sweet sleep to bear him off the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . menelaus then upbraided antilochus and said , there is no persuading you to take advice . because heaven has so richly endowed you with the arts of war , you think that you must therefore excel others in counsel ; but you cannot thus claim preeminence in all things . with this they turned out of their way and lay down among the corpses . dolon suspected nothing and soon passed them , but when they reached troy and the place where his arms were lying , while alexandrus , husband of lovely helen , put on his shirt , bound his sandals about his comely feet , flung the skin of a huge tawny lion over his shoulders a skin that reached his feet and grasped his spear . when he had played till he was tired and went to sleep , with juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him who was with you . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
