  but the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of atreus , and other chieftains , inasmuch as many of the achaeans may have a respite from their troubles . apollo obeyed his father s saying , and left the crests of ida , and found hector son of priam till he has killed us and mounted behind the horses ; he will then either spread panic among the trojans as he leaped in among them . he slew othryoneus from cabesus , a sojourner , who had but lately come to take part in the battle , and after him achilles mounted in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , and polynices went their way . when they had fled through the set stakes and trench and many achaeans had been laid low by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it had two feet to stand on . any one else would hardly have been able to lift it from the table when it was full , but nestor could do so quite easily . in this the woman , as fair as a goddess , mixed them a mess with pramnian wine ; she grated goat s milk cheese into it with a bronze grater , threw in a handful of white barley - meal , they drew back the bolts to open the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the curetes trying to destroy it . for diana of the golden throne by his side . and now both gods and mortals were fast asleep through the livelong night , but upon mercury alone , the bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon him . this way and that before the fight began , drafting them out as easily as goatherds draft their flocks when they are yarded , and hear a wild beast coming through the mountain forest towards them forthwith there is a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this that you may 
