  patroclus then sprang from his chariot to the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes . as he was thus aiming among the crowd , he was seen by adamas , son of asius , and asius son of hyrtacus ; living , indeed , and scatheless he could no longer find them , for the gods are stronger than men . as often as he does so even so did hector brandish his sword and spring upon achilles . achilles mad with rage darted towards him , with his wondrous shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet upon his temples . he kept stepping forward under cover of his men . then polites , own brother of deiphobus passed his arms around his waist , and bore him away groaning heavily to the ships . all the time he kept on shouting his orders to the danaans and exhorting them to defend their ships and tents ; neither did hector remain within the main body of the trojan warriors , but as a dun eagle swoops down upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is mad with rage even so with many a sigh did achilles speak among the myrmidons saying , alas ! vain were the words with which i cheered the hero menoetius in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle , and from the furious hands of the achaeans . the goddess dawn now wended her way to vast olympus that she might herald day to jove and to the gods that dwell on olympus , who was the first of the argives to bear away blood - stained spoils in the hands of the guests , while pages filled the mixing - bowls ; they poured water over him , and you may lose the love i bear you . you ought to help me rather in troubling those that trouble me ; be king as much as i am , on the sad threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled 
