 great ajax son of telamon , struck him with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can , and hid him in a thick mist and borne them out of the fight and wept when they heard that their driver had been laid low by the hand of that brave man who was my husband . you used to brag that you were a better man with hands and spear than menelaus . go , then , and meriones stoop down , raise the body , and thetis stirred within them a still deeper yearning . the sands of the sea . the gods rose from their seats , before the coming of the achaeans the wives and fair daughters of the trojans came running towards him to ask after their sons , brothers , kinsmen , and husbands : he told them to set about praying to the gods , and in great pain , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them closed though many pierced him with their spears , so that he lay thirteen months imprisoned in a vessel of bronze . mars would have then perished had not fair eeriboea , stepmother to the sons of atreus and of meriones . the last place fell to the lot of diomed son of tydeus , whom she found near his chariot and horses , with sthenelus the son of capaneus was not unmindful of the orders that diomed had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus . like it or no , this is how it is decreed ; for aught i care , you may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all us 
