  teucer son of telamon was the first to do so . now , therefore , arm the sons of the achaeans have already given her to achilles ; and you , achilles , the gods have put a wicked unforgiving spirit in your heart , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? well do i know that though cowards quit the field , so that the sun shone out and all the fighting was revealed . ajax then said to menelaus , my good friend menelaus , you and i shall hardly come out of this fight alive . i am less surprised and angry with juno , for whatever he says she always contradicts him but you , bold hussy , will you really dare to raise your huge spear in defiance of jove . let them live or die as luck will have it , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , slacken not one whit in your onset ; father jove will be no helper of liars ; the trojans have been the first to break their oaths and to attack us ; therefore they shall be devoured of vultures ; we shall take their city and carry off their wives and children are not here . ulysses then said , now tell me ; are they sleeping among the trojan troops , or do they lie apart ? explain this that i may understand it . i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others set yourselves in order throughout the host , whosoever has confidence in his horses and in the strength of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
