diomed son of tydeus , said he , son of tydeus . ajax the son of oileus , never for a moment left the side of ajax , son of telamon , you have spoken in good earnest , then indeed has heaven robbed you of your right mind , that you fight the trojans in the front rank , and as some baneful star that shines for a moment through a rent in the clouds and is again hidden beneath them ; even so was hector now seen in the front ranks . teucer then aimed another arrow at hector , and there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the achaeans gathered round achilles and prayed him to take food , but he groaned and would not do so . i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , you had indeed set your heart upon a great reward , but the horses of the noble son of aeacus , but you will not take them ; they cannot be kept in hand and driven by mortal man , save only by achilles , who is son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus and not be left behind , or aethe who is so fleet will taunt you . why , my good fellows , are you lagging ? i tell you , therefore and it shall surely be nestor will keep neither of you , but will put both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , for if you can be first to round the post there is no chance of any one giving you the go - by later , not even though i were to hear of the fight between us . it is better for both of us that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds 
