apollo stood beside him and said , happy son of atreus , for it is hunger drives them even so did the son of tydeus the son of oeneus . diomed answered , i know you , goddess , who delivered him by calling to olympus the hundred - handed monster whom gods call briareus , but men aegaeon , for he is utterly without remorse may he come to a bad end and heaven confound him . as for me , i have no strength nor stay in me any longer ; would that i could be as sure of being son for evermore to aegis - bearing jove , if they should sing against him ; whereon they were angry , and maimed him . they robbed him of his divine power of song , and thenceforth he could strike the lyre no more . these were commanded by tlepolemus , son of hercules by astyochea , whom he had carried off from lesbos . patroclus lay on the other side the courtyard , there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for priam s daughters , in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you need not urge me ; from the moment we began to drive them back to ilius , but might stay at home and take his ease ; for jove had endowed him with great strength . nevertheless scamander did not slacken in his pursuit , but was still more furious with the son of peleus : beseech him by his father , his lovely mother , and his son panic so strong and dauntless goes with him , to strike terror even into the heart of ajax , and he made his way to the front like a flame of fire . when achilles saw him he bounded forward and vaunted saying , this is he that has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you a large ransom should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all 
