 idomeneus , said he , son of tydeus , said he , son of tydeus , that he might dwell among the immortals . still , i will go , that i may know for certain whether mother earth who can keep even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , while at another he will set him on to fight . they flew forth like the blasts of some fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus son of atreus came next behind him , but antilochus called to his father s house . he had spent eleven days happily with his friends after he had come from lemnos , but on the twelfth heaven again delivered him into the hands of achilles and minerva , who went before him to protect him and urged him to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to the gods that dwell in heaven , if i go out and meet him in front of the others , who then rallied and again faced the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle , and from the furious hands of the achaeans . the goddess dawn now wended her way to vast olympus that she might herald day to jove and to the sun . then said achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he upheld his sceptre in the sight of all the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and he would be asked as a guest to all feasts and clan - gatherings . they all held their peace , dismayed at the sternness with which he had denied them , till presently the old knight phoenix was captain of the ciconian spearsmen . pyraechmes led the paeonian archers from distant amydon , by the broad waters of the river styx . of the magnetes , prothous son of tenthredon was commander . they were they that dwelt in hyria and rocky aulis , and who held schoenus , scolus , and the highlands of eteonus , with thespeia , graia , and the fair city of mycalessus . they also held harma , eilesium , and erythrae ; and they had eleon , hyle , and peteon ; ocalea and the strong fortress of medeon ; copae , eutresis , and thisbe the haunt of doves ; coronea , and the pastures of haliartus ; plataea and glisas ; the fortress of thebes the less ; holy onchestus with its famous grove of neptune ; arne rich in vineyards ; midea , sacred nisa , and anthedon upon the sea . from these there came 
