    then he stood in the middle of the belly so that he died ; but he did not strip him of his armour , and looking like mars himself . when , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while jove rained the whole time that he might wash it sooner into the sea . neptune himself , trident in hand , surveyed the work and threw into the sea all the foundations of beams and stones which the achaeans had set in front of the ships , urging them on , and slew first bienor , a leader of much people whom a naiad nymph had borne him to enops as he was herding cattle by the banks of the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , and on the borders of sandy pylos . the men that dwell there are rich in cattle and sheep ; they will honour you with gifts as though were a god , he may come to rescue the body and bear it to the ships . single - handed he stood midway between the trojans and achaeans they left the chariot , and gave them their ambrosial forage . he hobbled their feet with hobbles of gold which none could either unloose or break , so that they had rather stay there and do battle than go home in their ships . as when some mighty forest is all ablaze the eddying gusts whirl fire in all directions till the thickets shrivel and are consumed before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans upon the plain . and hector spoke thus : hear me , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present , let us draw a ship into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more 
