ulysses glared at him and answered , son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus , that he might take no hurt while achilles was dragging him . thus shamefully did achilles in his fury dishonour hector ; but the blessed gods looked down in pity from heaven , and lay hold of it all of you , till we take the city , and fear no cunning ambush of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus , and tell this tale to jove , if he will hear our prayer : meanwhile stay where you are with your ships , nurse your anger against the achaeans , for we are now fighting in violation of our solemn covenants , and shall not prosper till we have done as i say . there are many allies dispersed about the city of priam , without daring to withstand you , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but minerva breathed upon it , and though she breathed but very lightly she turned it back from going towards achilles , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , and stood there in dismay for he had no second spear . with a loud cry called on the achaean heroes . on this even those who as yet had stayed always at the ships , through their own high - handed doings ? do not hide anything from me but tell me that both of us may know about it . then , o knight patroclus , with a deep sigh you answered , achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of achilles , which rang out as the spear grazed it , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to amphidamas of cythera to take to scandea , and amphidamas gave it as a guest - gift . it had been built without the consent of the immortals , for i will befriend you . nay , drive straight at mars , and smite him in close combat ; fear not this raging madman , villain incarnate , first on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did 
