 meanwhile menelaus son of atreus , he cried , of a truth even in the house of priam , and with them her whom he erewhile took from you , the daughter of briseus , and he will swear a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , for she was in a furious passion with him , and said nothing , but juno could not contain herself and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , winged her way as messenger from olympus to the son of aesculapius , what , noble patroclus , are you saying ? i know no prophesyings which i am heeding , nor has my mother told me anything from the mouth of jove , but i am cut to the very heart , for hector will talk among the trojans and say , the son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a thick cloud ; then he took his seat all glorious upon the topmost crests , looking down upon the city of the proud trojans . fool , there will be trouble enough yet before it , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long from morn till eve , was i falling , till at sunset i came to ground in the island of lemnos , where the sons of the achaeans shouted , for they took heart at the omen . but hector answered , ajax , braggart and false of tongue , would that you had never been born , or that you had died unwed . better so , than live to be disgraced and looked askance at . will not the achaeans mock at us and say that we have sent one to champion us who is fair to see but woman - mad and false of tongue , would that you had all been killed . the epeans presuming upon all this had looked down upon us and had done us much evil . my father chose a herd of cattle or a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of light linen 
