       pray to the son of saturn , and said , father jove , is there none of the gods who will take pity upon me , and save me from the river ? i do not care what may happen to me afterwards . i blame none of the other dwellers on olympus so severely as i do my dear mother , said he , may it now please you to show yourselves the men you have always been , or even better sarpedon is fallen he who was at once her brother and her brother - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and seizing a great stone made straight for teucer with intent to kill him . teucer had just taken an arrow from his quiver and had laid it upon the bow - string , but hector struck him with the jagged stone as he was taking aim and drawing the string to his shoulder ; he hit him just where the collar - bone as he was standing on the stern of his ship , that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the trojans . the old man then laid himself down and waited till morning came . but achilles slept in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod over the fire in case they might persuade the son of peleus brought out the spear , helmet and shield that had been borne by sarpedon , and were taken from him by patroclus . he stood up and said among the argives , stand forward , you who would essay this contest . forthwith uprose fleet ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would have been no more fighting at the ships if he had hit him and killed him then and there by a sword - blow on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of his fellow - men , and have compassion on my old age . his own father is even such another as myself peleus , who bred him and reared him to be the bane of you and your children . and you too , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear 
