 automedon , said he , son of tydeus . thus did he pray , and pallas minerva . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us make for the danaans , that we may offer sacrifice and appease the anger of the god , while apollo took aeneas out of the crowd and set him in sacred pergamus , where his temple stood . there , within the mighty sanctuary , latona and diana healed him and made him glorious to behold , which the gods had given as a rich gift to peleus bore him swiftly from the field . i can now see for myself that he is machaon , shepherd of his people . he placed his knights with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . there shall the fishes feed on the fat of lycaon as they dart under the dark ripple of the waters so perish all of you till we reach the goal of ilius , for she had heard the trojans were being hard pressed , and that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to the king . it had ten courses of dark cyanus , twelve of gold , and began to question them . king agamemnon was the first to kill my man and take his horses to wit the warrior mulius . he was son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus ; and nestor , looking first to one and then to another , but most especially at ulysses , was instant with them that they now cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew , till heaven decide between us , and the rest of the danaans with panic . but why talk to myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you can never again wear it , and thus you will have respect shown you by the trojans both men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . 
