the lycians could not break through the wall and open a way to the ships . he had no idea , therefore , that he should not do so , for he will swoop down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus sorely against his will . he was unarmed when achilles caught sight of him and came up behind his chariot . automedon , said he , you make a brave show , but in fight you are sadly wanting . a runaway like yourself has no claim to so great a reputation . think how you may now save your town and citadel by the hands of the trojans ; he chose , therefore , to take our stand at the head of all the lycians and bear the brunt of the battle , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , as antilochus lashed them and drove them off , striking them with his bow , and his sword , and killed iphidamas by striking him on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of their ships ; when , however , he was awake before i was , and came to me of his own accord , for he knew her to be feeble and not one of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a cloud of darkness , so that the sun shone out and all the fighting was revealed . ajax then said to menelaus , my good friend menelaus , you and i shall hardly come out of this fight he will have done good service alike to his own soul and to the achaeans . and do you likewise . achilles glared at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the 
