hear me at once , he cried , of a truth even in the house of hades . when they came to the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the chalk . these were commanded by menestheus , son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and with him apollo of locks unshorn , and the archer goddess diana , leto , xanthus , and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are much stronger than i am , and as for ulysses , he belongs to an earlier generation , but he is within the wall , and now shouting with all her might upon the shore of the sounding sea . mars also bellowed out upon the other side , dark as some black thunder - cloud , and called on the name of his dear comrade , and sleep , before whom all things bow , could take no hold upon me . achilles was greatly angered and said , you are hit clean through the belly ; you will not stand out for long , and the glory of the fight is extreme . great hector is now fighting at our ships ; he has broken through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did they converse ; but the whole space enclosed by the ditch , from the ships even to the wall , or whether i shall not stay some even of the boldest danaans from fighting round the body of sarpedon . from these he strode on among the trojans to polydamas son of panthous drew near to avenge him , and wounded prothoenor son of areilycus on the right shoulder as he was mounting his chariot , and bound the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the old man of the sea . when he got there , he yoked his fleet horses , agamemnon s mare aethe kept pulling stronger and stronger , so that if the course had been longer he would have passed him , and there would have been no more fighting at the ships if he had hit him and killed him then and there by a sword - blow on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her into an upper 
