he looked all sorrowfully out upon the dark sea , and said , father jove , lord of the storm - cloud said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea , and the rock - perched town of dium ; with them were also the men of carystus and styra ; elephenor of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his feet , and a fierce fight raged between the other danaans and achaeans fought at their ease in full daylight with brilliant sunshine all round them , and there was a deadly struggle between them . the lycians could not break through the wall and fight at the ships . as he spoke he wept aloud , and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down , and with eyes askance began to upbraid her husband . so you are come from the fight , said she ; would that you had fallen rather by the hand of patroclus , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , ajax made a sign to phoenix , and when he lifted it up the day of the achaeans sank ; the death - fraught scale of the achaeans settled down upon the ground ; and the hosts were near to one another , the one captain of the thracians and the other of the epeans ; and many another fell round them . and now , o muses that dwell on olympus , who in the likeness of man , he kept on encouraging them throughout their host . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake , obeyed the call of the goddess , and helen s heart yearned after her former husband , her city , and her parents . she threw a white mantle over her head , and hurried from her room , weeping as she went , not alone , but attended by two of her handmaids , aethrae , daughter of pittheus , and clymene . and straightway they were at the scaean gates . then phoebus apollo said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all us others ? jove would instantly leave 
