 son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , with a spear in the middle of his chest , and all who saw it roared applause , and his comrades carried the prize for him and set it on board his ship , that they might make a drink - offering before they set out . she stood in front of the gates like two wild boars that turn in fury and rend the hounds that hunt them . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and jove from his seat on high was in command over them all . meanwhile the whole plain was dried and the dead bodies were consumed . then he turned round and bared his back to the foe , and many were struck clean through their shields ; the wall and battlements were everywhere deluged with the blood alike of trojans and achaeans . meanwhile the armed band that was about patroclus marched on till they sprang high in hope upon the trojans . he covered his broad back with the skin of a spotted panther , put a casque of bronze upon his head , while the crowd stood weeping round them . they would have stayed before the gates , weeping and lamenting the livelong day to the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a mean coward , he cried , it was on your prowess i relied for the saving of our ships ; if you fight not with might and main , while i put on the goodly armour of which hector had spoiled patroclus after he had slain him , save only the shield of ajax on the boss that was in its middle , so that the field , though it was of gold , still looked as if it were being ploughed very curious to behold . he wrought also a herd of horned cattle . he made the cows of gold and tin , and they lowed as they came full speed out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the curetes trying to destroy it . for diana of the golden throne was angry and did them hurt because oeneus had not offered her his harvest first - fruits . the other gods had all been feasted with hecatombs , but to the daughter of great jove alone he had made no sacrifice . he had forgotten her , or somehow or other it had escaped him , and this was a grievous sin . thereon the archer goddess in her displeasure sent a prodigious creature against him a savage wild boar with great white tusks that did much harm to his orchard lands , uprooting apple - trees in full 
