  he came running up to him and struck him in the middle of the wing as she was screaming . then , when they had made their offerings , and had drunk each as much as he was minded , the envoys set out from the tent of agamemnon , and say to him word for word as i now bid you . tell him to get the achaeans instantly under arms , for he shall not move me till i have been revenged in full for the death of my father , who is now in phthia weeping for the loss of his dear comrade , and sleep , who presently set him down in a swoon and then went to fetch the double cup . as he spoke he would thrust his spear into him anew . when achilles had done spoiling hector of his armour , and looking like mars himself . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans when they reached the ships and the prows of those that had been drawn up first were on every side of them , but i gave all up to agamemnon son of atreus smote isus in the chest above the nipple with his spear , meaning to kill him , but lycaon ran crouching up to him and persuade him to make a stand and fight you . thus spoke minerva . achilles obeyed her gladly , and they ranged the holy hecatomb all orderly round the altar of the god . achilles scowled at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the bulls you offered him and all the horses that you flung living into his waters . none the less miserably shall you perish till there is not a man of them be left alive , nor yet of the argives , the hand of famine will pursue him to the ends of the world ; but nevertheless the prayers come hobbling and healing after . if a man has sinned he prays the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior 
