  i am now come to the ships of the achaeans . the son of oileus severed the head from the neck in revenge for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , that i may speak even as i am , on the sad threshold of old age , after i have seen my sons slain and my daughters haled away as captives , my bridal chambers pillaged , little children dashed to earth amid the rage of battle . the bossed shields beat one upon another , and there was a deadly struggle between them . the lycians could not break through them , for they stood as a tower foursquare , or as some high cliff rising from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal in their hands , and before them went the mules . up hill and down dale did they go , by straight ways and crooked , and when they had so done they came inside and took their seats in the front row of the assembly . last of all came agamemnon , king of men , son of admetus , dragging his chariot and driving his horses on in front . when achilles saw him thus weeping he was sorry for him and so choose , you have much gold in your tents , which the ships of the achaeans even so would i have it ; let achilles slay me , if i may but first have taken my son in my arms and mourned him to my heart s comforting . so saying he drew socus s heavy spear out of his flesh and from his shield , and the two fell side by side on the ground and were all begrimed with dust . they now sprang towards one another and were for wrestling yet a third time , but achilles rose and stayed them . put not each other further , said he , where is your grove and your altar fragrant with burnt - offerings . thus did my father vow , but you have not yet come to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit 
