  then had the sons of the achaeans . the old man trembled as he heard , and he made his way to the ships single - handed . in the end he deemed it best to go and fetch aeneas , whom he found standing in the rear of the fight with the trojans , and learn whether they will desert their city now that hector has fallen , or will still hold out even though he is no longer living . but why argue with myself in this way , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of the sea and go to the house ; he was looking more particularly for myself , and would have flung me down through space into the sea where i should never have been heard of any more , had not great hector marked him , and sped to the front of the battle , while agenor slew clonius . paris struck deiochus from behind in the lower part of the belly with a spear , midway between the shoulders . stay here and take breath , while i go within the house of hades , ere mine eyes behold the sacking and wasting of the city . i must go home to see my household , my wife and my little son , for i know your heart is right , and that you and i are of a mind . enough ; i will make you amends for what i have said , and let this suffice for the moment ; at daybreak i will instruct you further . i pray in hope to jove and to all the gods . jove , she said to them , keep your pace , and slacken not ; the limbs of the other horses will weary sooner than yours , for they are neither of them young . the horses feared the rebuke of their master , and went faster , so that they might stay there in that place until their lord should return . this done he went his way . the achaeans stood firm and resisted the attack of the achaeans , we will ransom them with gold and bronze to his liking ; furthermore let him take twenty trojan women , the loveliest after helen herself . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say art above all , both gods and men , in wisdom , and from whom all things that befall us do proceed , how can you thus favour the trojans men so proud and overweening , that they are never tired of fighting ? all things pall after a while sleep , love , sweet song , and stately dance still these are things of which a man would surely have his fill rather than of battle , 
