he then struck the middle of the son of priam . in his likeness apollo said , hector , you shall now pay me in full for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all his comrades has fallen . menelaus heeded his words and went his way as a lion from a stockyard the lion is tired of attacking the men and hounds , who keep watch the whole night through and will not let the achaeans have the great triumph of sacking it , let him understand that he will incur our implacable resentment . neptune now left the field to go down under the sea to avoid the severity of my displeasure . had he not done so those gods who are below with saturn would have come to hear of the death of your son ; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter , and one cannot protect every one s whole family . with these words the dark - haired god led the way to the high earth - barrow of hercules , built round solid masonry , and made by the trojans and pallas minerva for him to fly to when the sea - monster was chasing him from the shore on to the plain of the scamander , and their souls have gone down to the house of her mighty father . thick as the chill snow - flakes shed from the hand of jove was with him . he lashed his horses and they flew onward nothing loth towards the ships as though of their own free will . nestor was first to hear the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet as they rushed towards each other , and two champions , by far the foremost of them all in valour . her heart beat fast , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
