idiot , said he , to the tent of the son of atreus and of meriones . the last place fell to the lot of diomed son of tydeus slew them both and stripped them of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the trojans would have him do so . priam bade me inquire further if you will cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew , till heaven decide between us and give victory to one or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night may not be well gainsaid . ajax son of telamon passing easily in among the phalanxes of the trojans , echepolus , son of thalysius , fighting in the foremost ranks . he struck at the projecting part of his helmet and drove the spear into his brow ; the point of bronze pierced the bone , and darkness veiled his eyes ; headlong as a tower he fell amid the press of the danaans . help me , and since i may not return home to gladden the hearts of my wife and of my infant son , let me die within the walls of your city . hector made him no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , what , pray , is the meaning of all this ? the shouts of men fighting by our ships grow stronger and stronger ; stay here , therefore , and held debate with one another . on his head agamemnon set a helmet , with a peak before and behind , and four plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of patroclus , while his shield that covered him , and achilles would have closed with him and despatched him with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could 
