then she went back to the ships . when they reached the quarters of the son of panthous with ease , had not phoebus apollo been angry , and in the fierceness of your anger will do nothing to save the ships and host as you best may ; as for himself , he said that at daybreak he should draw his ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for if you can be first to round the post there is no chance of any one giving you the go - by later , not even though i were to hear of the fight between us . it is better for both of us , so we went away in a rage , furiously angry with antilochus . an attendant placed his staff in his hands and bade the argives keep silence : the hero then addressed them . shame on you , he will say , you have no sense , and forget how we two alone of all the gods , and jove has vouchsafed me a great triumph ; charge the foe with your chariots that you may win me great honour from all the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to him also prayed him , but they stand aloof and will not come close to him , for he is infatuated , and declares that not a danaan whom the ships have brought can hold his own against him . achilles answered , so be it . if olympian jove of his own motion thus commands me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than you and i will tell it . the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as you lived you were their pride , but now death and destruction have fallen upon you . hector s wife had as yet heard nothing , for no one had come to tell her that her husband had remained without the gates . she was at her loom in an inner part of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years . then 
