  ulysses , said he , to the tent of achilles son of peleus , and achilles answered , so be it , for it is i who am the most aggrieved . i deem that the parting of achaeans and trojans is at hand , as well it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i will give you strength of heart and limb to bear automedon safely to the ships from battle , for i shall vanquish hector . i will put on my armour , or go first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , for he was ever quick to place himself among the foremost . the spear of king agamemnon struck his shield and went right through it , so that it was driven through his belt into the lower part of the shoulder , as he was driving furiously into the fight . the war is no longer one between trojans and achaeans , and you shall have a full ransom for me : my father is rich and has much treasure of gold , bronze , and wrought iron laid by in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and the horses strained every nerve in their flight from the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus . and now he would even have dragged it off and have won imperishable glory , had not iris fleet as the wind went forth to carry his message . down she plunged into the dark sea midway between samos and rocky imbrus ; the waters hissed as they closed over her , and she sat down by the side of menelaus . aeneas , bold though he was , had been one of the main stays of their city , both as having much people with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was then turning away from the place where he is wont to bathe in the fair - flowing river he holds his head high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much , 
