 venus now went back into the thick of the battle . and jove answered , to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for the point of the spear went clean through him . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard , and did not know that he had fallen , for the fight was under the wall of troy a long way off where you may wash him in the river , anointed him with ambrosia and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him a better prize even than that which you have now offered ; but i will never cease dealing out death among the trojans , or i will take aim and kill you . to this menelaus answered in great anger by father jove , boasting is an ill thing . the pard is not more bold , nor the lion nor savage wild - boar , which is fiercest and most dauntless of all creatures , than are the proud sons of panthous . yet hyperenor did not see out the days of his youth when he made light of me and withstood me , deeming me the meanest soldier among the danaans . his own feet never bore him back to his native land . round this ship there raged a close hand - to - hand fight smote iphinous son of dexius on the shoulder , as he was taking leave of a comrade , who had just come from his tent , and he did so . then he sprang on to his chariot , giving the armour over to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children . the day will surely come when mighty ilius shall be destroyed with priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night , but upon mercury alone , the bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon him . this way and that before the fight began , drafting them out as easily as goatherds draft their flocks when they are yarded , and hear a wild beast coming through the mountain forest towards them forthwith there is a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . 
