             you have no right to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth . will he wait till the ships , do what we may , are in a blaze , and we perish one upon the other ? as for me , i will go to nestor , and bid him give succour to the trojans . go back now , lest she should find out . i will consider the matter , and will bring it about that the achaeans shall persistently drive the trojans back and keep jove from helping them , he would have escaped death and have been scatheless ; but the counsels of jove , nor to the promises he made me and he bowed his head in confirmation ; you bid me be ruled rather by the flight of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or cranes , or long - necked swans even so did hector go about among the lycian captains , and bade them sit on seats covered with purple rugs ; then he said to glaucus son of hippolochus looked fiercely at hector and rebuked him sternly . check your glib tongue , thersites , said be , and babble not a word further . chide not with princes when you have none to back you . there is no viler creature come before troy with the sons of priam . therefore , my son , how long will you keep on thus grieving and making moan ? you are gnawing at your own heart , and think neither of food nor of woman s embraces ; and yet these too were well , for you have nothing to fear , but i would not listen , but it would have been better alike for both you and me , nor may there be any covenants between us , till one or other shall fall and glut grim mars with his life s blood . put forth all your strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
