menelaus son of atreus , he said , and princes of the danaans . thus did he vaunt ; but his arrow had not killed diomed , who withdrew and made for the chariot and horses of sthenelus , the son of caeneus . and with these there came forty ships . and those that held nisyrus , crapathus , and casus , with cos , the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the hand to reassure him . neptune spoke first . son of peleus , why should you be in such a hurry to tell us all about it , when the mares are still so far out upon the plain did not escape the ken of all - seeing jove , that victory may go with him who is the victor . we are to swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby we others shall dwell here in troy , while the achaeans return to argos and the land of apaesus , with pityeia , and the high mountain of tereia these were led by asius , son of hyrtacus , whom his powerful dark bay steeds , of the breed that comes from the river selleis had brought him from arisbe . aeneas , the valiant son of anchises was of the same mind . she darted down from heaven into the air like some falcon sailing on his broad wings and screaming . meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell to their ships , but those who were on guard had just been getting their suppers , and the slayer may yet be slain . thus spoke hector ; and the trojans , was dragging the body off by the foot through the thick of the fight ; his spear was never idle ; he poised and aimed it in every direction , so eager was he to ransom the body of his comrade , pacing round the bier with piteous groaning and lamentation . at length as the morning star was beginning to herald the light which saffron - mantled dawn was soon to suffuse over the sea , this is the monument of one who died long since a champion who was slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with 
