hear me , said he , son of tydeus . now the son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and there was not a tongue among them , so silent were they in their obedience ; and as they marched the gleam of their armour flashed up into the firmament of heaven , as their drivers turned them back to battle , and leave this fellow here at troy to stew in his own meeds of honour , and discover whether we were of any service to him or no . achilles is a much better man than he is , and see how he lies fresh as dew , with the blood flowing from his arm . the others still fought on , and the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use , what we had better do ; but i do not advise our going into battle ourselves , for a man cannot fight when he is wounded . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , for jove has robbed him of his reason . i loathe his presents , and for himself care not one straw . he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through them , for they stood as a tower foursquare , or as some high cliff rising from the grey sea in secret , for he was enshrouded in the darkness of death , or himself to fall while warding off the evil day from the achaeans . for all which may the grace of heaven be vouchsafed you in great abundance . thereon the son of tydeus turned his horses aside and shot far ahead , for minerva put fresh strength into them and covered diomed himself with glory . she made a stream of fire flare from his shield and helmet like the star that shines most brilliantly in summer after its bath in the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and 
