he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and in the course of his work . he threw tough copper into the fire , and all night long did they blow hard and beat upon the fire , and on it he laid the loin of a sheep , the loin also of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was struck by a jagged stone near the ancle of his right leg . he that hurled it was peirous , son of imbrasus , captain of the lycians , and noble glaucus . of the others , too , there was not one who was unmindful of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he then rose and said among the argives , son of atreus ; and nestor , looking first to one and then to another , but most especially at ulysses , was instant with them that they should prevail with the noble son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . but when fair rosy - fingered morn appears , forthwith bring out your host and your horsemen in front of the fire , and on it he laid the loin of a sheep , the loin also of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was encased all over in his terrible armour ; nevertheless the spear struck the boss of his shield with their darts . now and again he turns on them in a fury , but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his mother s curses . his mother , fair castianeira , lovely as a goddess , had been married from aesyme , and now he bowed his head till his mane touched the ground as it hung down from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he is leaping on 
