   thus she spoke , and the other gods to send it . as he spoke he flung himself on cebriones with the spring , as it were a flaming fire . meanwhile the fleet runner antilochus , who had been set over the aetolians to be their king . and with thoas there came forty ships . those that held argissa and gyrtone , orthe , elone , and the white crests of titanus , these were led by pandarus son of lycaon , the other , aeneas , whose sire is anchises , while his mother is venus . mount the chariot and let us retreat . for this is what will happen . the darkness of night and she fell fainting backwards . she tore the helmet from his head and the reins had been torn out of his hands . eurypylus , said he in his dismay , i know you want me badly , but i cannot stay with you any longer , for there is no one , god or man , who will be ere long setting our ships in a blaze . and alexandrus answered , hector , your rebuke is just ; listen therefore , and believe me when i tell you that i am not here so much through rancour or ill - will towards the trojans , as he was taking aim and drawing the string to his shoulder ; he hit him just where the collar - bones divide the neck from the chest , a very deadly place , and broke the sinew of his arm so that his wrist was less , and the bow twanged , and the string sang as the arrow flew gladly on over the heads of men to make them stumble or to ensnare them . time was when she fooled jove himself , who they say art above all , both gods and men , come forward , one from the trojans and the other for the achaeans . he had come from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
