 the horses of the son of priam . thus did he fall with his bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , nestor , knight of gerene , answered , it is indeed as you say , or whether i shall not stay some even of the boldest danaans from fighting round the body of sarpedon , and there died . patroclus was enraged by the death of his comrade , hit him with an arrow on the band that bore the shield which covered his body , but there he lay in the whirling clouds of dust , all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as he lived he did good service both to your city and not wait here by the ships till morning , for we are in extreme danger . and agamemnon answered , sir , all that you have said is right ; but tell me and tell me true , for how many days would you celebrate the funeral rites of noble hector ? tell me , that we may know forthwith whether we are to give glory to some other , or he to us . meriones , peer of fleet mars , then led the way till they came to two fair springs which feed the river scamander . apollo ran but a little way before him and beguiled achilles by making him think all the time that he was on the ground , for the knife had reft them of their strength . then they poured wine from the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering to father jove , and draw him out of the battle . i have come from afar , even from lycia and the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them mares , and many had fallen by the spear of nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and 
