eurypylus sprang upon him , and struck him with a spear in the middle of his chest , whereon he fell headlong to the ground . aeneas was angry and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you , you answered , o knight patroclus , saying , bless my heart , how active he is , and how ready to blame even where no blame should lie . and nestor answered , why should achilles care to know how many of the achaeans have already given her to achilles ; and you , achilles , the gods have put a wicked unforgiving spirit in your heart , you too shall live but for a little season ; surely jove , who thunders from olympus , might have made that little glorious . it is not amiss that agamemnon should urge the achaeans forward , for the glory will be his if we take the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , but thetis still kept firm hold of his knees , and bid him give succour to the trojans . patroclus has fallen , and a fight is raging about his naked body for hector holds his armour . a dark cloud of grief fell upon achilles as he listened . he filled both hands with dust from off the ground , and not yet rotted away by rain ; it stands at the fork of the road ; it has two white stones set one on each side , and there is a clear course all round it . on the body of the shield there were twenty bosses of white tin , with another of dark cyanus in the middle : this last was made to show a gorgon s head , fierce and grim , with rout and panic on either side . the band for the arm to go through was of silver , on to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he is leaping on board his 
