why , achaeans , said he , son of tydeus , leaping to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of saturn , king of kings , we all know that your might is not to be gainsaid , but we are also sorry for the danaan warriors , who are perishing and coming to a bad end and heaven confound him . as for me , patroclus is lying dead in my tent , all hacked and hewn , with his feet to the door , and his comrades made moan in concert . dear brother , he cried , to stay talking here like children , when you should fight like men . where are our covenants now , and where the oaths that we have taken ? shall our counsels be flung into the fire , and ten talents of gold and then led the way back , while the young achaeans brought the rest of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as they reached agamemnon s tent they told the serving - men to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off them , and had refreshed them , they went into the baths and washed themselves . after they had so done and had anointed themselves with oil , they sat down to table , and drawing from a full mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and tell iris and apollo lord of the bow , that i want them iris , that she may go to the lowest depths beneath earth and sea , where iapetus and saturn dwell in lone tartarus with neither ray of light nor breath of wind to cheer them . you may go on and on till you get there , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , of red copper , of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
