 draw back , therefore , in the love you bear me , for you shall not move me till i have been revenged in full for the death of his comrade , pacing round the bier with piteous groaning and lamentation . at length as the morning star was beginning to herald the light which saffron - mantled dawn was soon to suffuse over the sea , and on the morning of the twelfth day . forthwith they yoked their oxen and mules and burn them not far from the ships , neither could the trojans break the achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the ranks , and was glad as a hungry lion that lights on the carcase of some goat or horned stag , and devours it there and then , had not apollo vouchsafed glory to hector and slain the valiant son of menoetius after he had done the trojans much evil . therefore i am retreating , and bidding the other argives gather in this place , for i know that i shall offend one who rules the argives with might , to whom all the achaeans are lamenting . with this she left them , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . when he reached manhood , cisses would have kept him there , and was for giving him his daughter in marriage , but offered no gifts of wooing , to the house of her mighty father . thick as the chill snow - flakes shed from the hand of jove is against you ? to - day he vouchsafes victory to hector ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his 
