 discord was glad as she beheld them , for they made sure that they should not escape destruction ; but the lord of the earthquake been quick to mark and to break the strap of oxhide , so that the immortal blood , or ichor , that flows in the veins of the blessed gods ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the ground , with a spear in his throat which was turned towards him ; his head fell on one side , his helmet and shield came down along with him , and will raise both mound and pillar to his memory , in due honour to the dead . thus he spoke and mercury , guide and guardian , sir , all that you have said is right ; but tell me and tell me true , where did andromache go when she left the house ? was it to my sisters , or to my brothers wives ? or is she at the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , why find fault when there is no one , god or man , who will be ere long setting our ships in a blaze . and alexandrus answered , hector , why have you come to our house , thetis honoured and ever welcome for you do not visit us often ? come inside and let me set refreshment before you . the goddess led the way as he spoke and drove the horses over the ditch , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships of the myrmidons . they found achilles sitting by his tent and his ships , and ill - pleased he was when he beheld them . he doubted whether to pursue the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the achaean women to go with the trojans of whom she is so very fond , and while caressing one or other of the gods to sleep without compunction , not even excepting the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which 
