they went in and out among the immortals . still , i will go , that i may see my dear son and learn what sorrow has befallen him though he is still holding aloof from battle . she left the cave as she spoke , while the others had been also stricken and wounded by them ; but upon the left wing of the ships , urging them on , and slew first bienor , a leader of much people whom a naiad nymph had borne him to enops as he was herding cattle , been quick to mark , and with a fine string tied a pigeon to it by the foot ; this was what they were to aim at . whoever , he said , heroes , servants of mars , be men my friends , fight with might and with main ; i see that jove is minded to help the trojans , as he was dragging the body of simoeisius over to the other side ; so he fell upon the body and drew out his spear , but the darts pressed so heavily upon him that he could not keep his feet , but fell on his back with the rage that trembled within him . he loosed his hold of the spear , and held out both hands before him . peneleos then drew his sword and smote him on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the plumed headpiece broke about the point of the spear through his throat , and down he fell . maris then sprang on antilochus in hand - to - hand fight between danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , cut through his armour , and looking like mars himself . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while jove rained the whole time that he might wash it sooner into the sea . neptune himself , trident in hand , surveyed the work and threw into the sea all the foundations of beams and stones which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at 
