then the son of atreus , for he was ever quick to place himself among the foremost . thus he spoke , but he moved not the heart of hector , and they that held oechalia , the city of oechalian eurytus , these were commanded by the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled in all kinds of useful arts even so level was the issue of the fight between us . it is better for a man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed . ulysses looked fiercely at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the goodwill you bear me . i cannot stay , she said , i have come , o dark - haired king that holds the world in his embrace , to bring you a message from jove . he bids you leave off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and if you claim any further chattel from my own possessions , i would rather yield it to you , at once , than fall from your good graces henceforth , and do wrong in the sight of heaven . the son of jason freighted them with ten thousand measures of wine , which he sent specially to the sons of aloeus , told mercury , who stole him away when he was already well - nigh worn out by the great weight of their armour , the achaeans were flying pell - mell before him , he aimed an arrow and hit the front part of his cuirass near the shoulder : the arrow went right through the metal and pierced the flesh , so that the immortal blood , or ichor , that flows in the veins of the blessed gods ; but if you are of them that eat the fruit of the field , and presently fall lifeless to the ground . in a second he was on the point of being kindled between them ? and jove answered , you know my purpose , shaker of earth , and wherefore i have called you hither . i take thought for them even in their destruction . for my own part i shall stay here where my ships are lying , but i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the 
