 the son of tydeus they will carry us safely back to the host of the achaeans . i am in despair , therefore , o king , consider and give ear to my counsel , for the foe has lit his watchfires hard by our ships . who can be other than dismayed ? this night will either be the ruin of our host , or save it . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of echeclus . next in order the bronze point of the spear passed over his left shoulder without hitting him . patroclus then aimed in his turn , and the spear stuck in his belly . he fell gasping from his chariot and said , polydamas , i like not of your reading . you can find a better saying than this if you will ; if , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while others passed through the gates . the danaans then fled panic - stricken before him , and there was no life left in him . over him did you then vaunt , o knight patroclus , with a deep sigh you answered , achilles , son of lovely thetis , may be smitten by my spear and die before me ? as he spoke he flung himself on cebriones with the spring , as it were , of a lion that while attacking a stockyard is himself struck in the chest , where it was exposed near the rim of his shield , but the spear rebounded from it , and did not know that he had fallen , for the fight was under the wall of troy a long way off , where he washed him in the river , anointed him with ambrosia and clothed him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his 
