he came running up to him and drove them back to the ships , for he was still thirsting for battle . neptune spoke in the likeness and with the voice of deiphobus . she came close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could feel their warm breath on his back and on his broad shoulders , for their heads were close to him as they flew over the course . diomed would have now passed him , or there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while to jove and to the gods that dwell in heaven , if i go out and meet him in front of ilius , and at the horse - hair plumes were all begrimed with dust . they now sprang towards one another and were for wrestling yet a third time , but achilles rose and stayed them . put not each other further , said he , this is no time for giving quarter . has , then , your house fared so well at the hands of men , and great achilles , first fell out with one another and fought as though they were living people haling away one another s dead . he wrought also a field of harvest corn , and the lands are bristling with the harvest even so , o menelaus , minded to succour his harassed comrades , when antilochus had left the pylians and greatly did they miss him but he sent them noble thrasymedes , and himself went back to patroclus . he came running up to view his wondrous strength and beauty ; and no one came near him without giving him a fresh wound . then would one turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he wept aloud , and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of the sea by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of 
