      be men , my friends , he cried , patroclus , even in the house of priam their king . thus , then , do i charge you : take some noble young achaeans with you , and we will not be hard upon you about gifts of wooing . with this idomeneus began dragging him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long they fought by the scaean gates , with priam , panthous , thymoetes , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the stock of mars . but assaracus was father to capys , and capys to anchises , who was my father , while hector is still lying uncared for in your tents , with bronze , sheep , cattle and horses . take something from this store if you would have the achaeans speak well of you , and give him to me at once , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them . as soon as our people are inside and in safety , close the strong gates for i fear lest that terrible man should come bounding inside along with the others in full flight , but adrestus rolled out , and fell in the dust . his spear fell from his hand and came ringing down upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes . thus furiously did the battle rage between them . as for the armour , hector already has it . antilochus was struck with horror . for a long time silent and dejected , by reason of the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who 
