i have heard the voice of the son of atreus , for it is you who bear the brunt of the battle , while the other achaeans followed . foot soldiers drove the foot soldiers of the foe in rout before them , and the river ran red with blood . as when fish fly scared before a huge dolphin , and fill every nook and corner of some fair haven for he is sure to eat all he can catch even so did the old man ponder whether to make for the crowd of danaans , or go in search of agamemnon . in the end , he deemed it best to go at once to nestor son of neleus , honour to the achaean name , mount your chariot at once ; take machaon with you and drive your horses to the ships as soon as he was outside saw the disastrous rout of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour you as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his belly , so that his limbs could play freely under it , and it seemed to buoy him up as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were hidden over all that part where the bravest and most in number were gathered about mighty diomed , fighting like lions or wild boars of great strength and endurance : the son of priam rages with intolerable fury , and has already done great mischief . minerva answered , would , indeed , this fellow might die in his own land , on the rich plains of troy . iris went up to her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him . and thetis answered , why does the mighty god so bid me ? i am in great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then 
