 but the horses dared not do so , for the point of the spear went through it and staggered him as he was springing down from his chariot in front of him like a wall a shield of bronze with seven folds of oxhide the work of tychius , who lived in hyle and was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , not of his own will , but one of his horses was disabled . alexandrus husband of lovely helen rose to speak . son of tydeus , with its scabbard , and the leathern belt with which to hang it . he took moreover the richly - dight shield that covered his body when he was in his sheepyards , and preferring her who had offered him a wanton to his ruin . when , therefore , he addressed them thus : son of atreus , check your anger , i implore you to stand firm , and see whether or no all the gods in heaven themselves buried them , and niobe then took food , being worn out with weeping . they say that there was no man ; then he saw the truth and said to himself , alas ! the gods have lured me on to my destruction . i deemed that the hero deiphobus was by my side , but he swerved and thus saved his life . then the son of atreus planted his foot upon his breast to draw his spear from the body and set it on board his ship , that others may see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon them . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be his son - in - law , hurrying hither and thither amid the fighting . then she turned her eyes to jove as he sat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in 
