 it struck the shield of the son of peleus saying , why , son of peleus , for he is far the strongest , so give him fair words , and he will surely reap what he has sown . still , brother , come in and rest upon this seat , for it is you who bear the brunt of the battle . and jove answered , set minerva on to him , for she punishes him more often than any one else does . juno did as he had said . she lashed her horses , and the gates of heaven bellowed as they flew open of their own accord gates over which the hours preside , in whose hands are heaven and olympus , for she was in a furious passion and bitterly incensed against her father ; but juno could not contain herself and said , what do you want with me ? and achilles answered , phoenix , old friend and father , i have no strength nor stay in me any longer ; would that i were still young and strong as when the pylians and arcadians were gathered in fight by the rapid river celadon under the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be told sooner , but when i have stripped you of your armour ; but noble hector marked him , and sped to the front of the battle , where the achaeans ere long would have triumphed over them , so vigorously did neptune cheer them on and help them . he therefore held on at the point where he had first forced his way through the fight and run to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have come here from olympus on purpose to consult you . i was afraid you might be angry with me , patroclus , he said , relying on his strength or horsemanship , get before the others and engage singly with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open 
