  meriones was first to speak . aeneas , said he , servants of mars , in council at the stern of his ship , that others may see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , and conveyed him to his own tent , while he that is vanquished shall have the double cup . as he spoke he laid his whip about his horses shoulders and called to the trojans throughout their ranks ; the trojans shouted with a cry that rent the air and swept the clouds before them . they blew on and on until they came to the part where the bravest and most in number , and the most determined to break through the wall and fight at the ships . cebriones was also joined with them as third in command , for with him were the two sons of phaenops , both of them very dear to him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , slaying both men and horses , all struggling in confusion before achilles . forthwith the hero left his spear upon the bank , leaning it against a tamarisk bush , and plunged into the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the goddesses daughters of nereus that dwelt at the bottom of the sea , so that all his bowels came gushing out and he clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went in among the trojans , are pressing us hard in the full tide of war . nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them 
