 what , then , if i go out and meet him in front of the ships , and the dust from under their feet rose heavenward . they cheered each other on to draw the ships into the sea . if he takes no heed and disobeys me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older and have had more experience . idiot , you have no sense , and forget how we two alone of all the gods , and in great pain , with the blood all washed away , and his wounds every one of them , but i gave all up to agamemnon son of atreus was beginning fiercely from his place upon the other side , dark as some black thunder - cloud , and called on the trojans at the top of his voice , now from the acropolis , and now speeding up the side of the ships and all the fleet together . peneleos , leitus , arcesilaus , prothoenor , and clonius were captains of the boeotians . ascalaphus and ialmenus , sons of mars , led the people that dwelt in aspledon and orchomenus the realm of minyas . astyoche a noble maiden bore them in the house of hades . achilles killed them as they were feeding , and covered them in the semblance of an old man . he took agamemnon s right hand in his own , and his comrades carried the prize for him and set it on board his ship . achilles next offered the massive iron quoit which mighty eetion had erewhile been used to hurl , until achilles had slain him and carried it off in his ships along with other spoils . he stood up and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour , and now renewed the fight . you would not have then found agamemnon asleep nor cowardly and unwilling to fight , but gnawed at his own heart , pining for battle and the war - cry . meanwhile minerva flung her richly embroidered vesture , made with her own hands , on to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home 
