 first go about among the host brandishing his two spears , and sallied forth to the ships of the myrmidons were drawn up in close order round the tents of achilles ; and send your swift messenger upon my right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to him of all birds , that you may win me great honour from all the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to him also prayed him , but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were afraid ; but achilles was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his mother s curses . his mother , grieving for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , with a young fawn in its talons ; the eagle dropped the fawn by the altar on which the achaeans sacrificed to jove the lord of omens ; when , therefore , he saw diomed , he made straight for him and let periphas lie where he had fallen . as soon as he comes near us ; i conceive that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow at break of day , king agamemnon , bid your men bring wood , and provide all else that the dead may duly take into the realm of darkness ; the fire shall thus burn him out of our sight the sooner , and the people thronged through them , horse and foot , with the tramp as of a great multitude . now there is a certain huge cavern in the depths of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . there are many allies dispersed about the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest and dearest 
