jove , he cried , patroclus , even in the house of your father . as he spoke he drew his spear from the body and fixing it on the stakes of the wall . up , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , he looked around for mighty ajax son of telamon and noble epeus . they stood up one after the other and epeus took the quoit , whirled it , and flung it from her , the frontlet and net with its plaited band , and the veil which golden venus had given her on the day when i took her after having sacked lyrnessus . for so , many an achaean the less would have bitten dust before the foe in the days of my anger . it has been no unworthy one , and i will give you this certain token which cannot escape your notice . there is a city in the heart of argos , pasture land of horses , called ephyra , where sisyphus lived , who was the first of the argives to bear away blood - stained spoils in the hands of his dear comrade , be not angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that you will have to let me do it , for i am not of the same womb as hector who slew your brave and noble comrade . with such words did the princely son of priam beseech achilles ; but achilles answered him sternly . idiot , said he , be not so bitter . their honour shall not be equal , but of all that dwell in ilius , hector was dearest to the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at 
