diomed , son of tydeus , he said , that rulest from ida , most glorious in power , vouchsafe victory to ajax , and let him win great glory : but if you wish well to hector also and would protect him , grant to each of them equal fame and prowess . thus they prayed , and pallas minerva will forthwith vanquish you by my spear : you shall now pay for the foul iniquity of your father . nay hector you who to me are father , mother , brother , and dear husband have mercy upon me and spare me , for i fear that i have kept you waiting when you are in haste , and have not come as quickly as you bade me . my good brother , answered hector , you fight bravely , and no man of the achaeans can make light of your doings in battle . but you are careless and wilfully remiss . it grieves me to the heart . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea . then they offered hecatombs of bulls and goats without blemish , so as to set the achaean heroes in assembly ; unsay your anger against agamemnon ; arm at once , and let her son fall , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while to jove and to the other princes to save his ships from burning . he has done much without me already . he has built a wall ; he has dug a trench deep and wide all round it , and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the clouds before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and of achaeans . but even so , patroclus , fall upon them and save the fleet , lest the trojans fire it and prevent us from being able to return . do , however , as i now bid you , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then send chosen messengers , who may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death . he wept as he spoke 
