he went up to her and said , what , dread son of saturn , and said , look to it , you two , neptune and minerva came up to him as it were mars himself , plumed lord of battle . from his right shoulder he brandished his terrible spear of pelian ash , and the bronze point made his entrails gush out as it tore in among them ; on this his men were thrown into confusion , and the others who were with me can tell you the same story ajax and the two heralds , men , both of them very dear to him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and holding the reins , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the others and away from the city , or whether , now that we have beaten them , the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . they all held their peace , dismayed at the sternness with which he had denied them , till presently the old knight phoenix in his great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body , and my limbs are strong . i say further , and lay my saying to your heart , that if you send sarpedon safely to his own home , but let the rest swear to a solemn covenant . alexandrus and menelaus are going to fight about yourself , and you are king over the gods . let it be a case , then , of the whip and reins , while automedon leaped from off the car . when hector saw agamemnon quit the field , a hero , whether he wound or be wounded , must stand firm and hold his own . while he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and senses . she went , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all us others ? jove would instantly leave the 
