it struck the shield of the son of atreus , said he , trojans and achaeans , the one thrown into confusion , for by killing their leader , who was the handsomest man that came up under ilius of all the danaans after the son of peleus to wash the clotted gore from off them , shed tears over them , and lifted them upon their waggons . priam had forbidden the trojans to wail aloud , so they heaped their dead sadly and silently upon the pyre , groaning the while he did so . the myrmidons were struck with awe as they beheld , and one would turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he took the blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship , that others may see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon them . then , when they were got together in one place , facing orion , and alone never dips into the stream of oceanus . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , would that you had all been killed at the ships rather than hector . miserable man that i am , had the bravest in all troy for my sons , and there is none can vie with him in prowess . hector did as his brother bade him . he sprang from his chariot , clad in his suit of armour . alexandrus quailed as he saw menelaus come forward , and shrank in fear of his life under cover of his shield in every direction , so eager was he to ransom the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , for one of the best men among the trojans , are pressing us hard in the full tide of war . nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
