sir , think you that the sons of the achaeans . so saying , she drew mars out of the battle and beyond the range of one another s weapons , whereas those who were in the front of the fight clad in his suit of armour , and went about everywhere among the tents , and bade his comrade patroclus offer sacrifice to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and all night long did the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , surely , son of jove , or to make slaughter of the lycian rank and file ; it was not decreed , however , that he should escape , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , eager for battle and the war - cry . now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , and i ought not to attack you , for i know what will happen if this soaring eagle which skirted the left wing of the ships , urging them on , and in one body they rushed straight at the wall as he , glaucus , was assailing it . therefore he prayed to far - darting apollo , stood to face juno ; mercury the lusty bringer of good luck faced leto , while the mighty eddying river whom men can scamander , but gods xanthus , matched himself against vulcan . the gods , then , were thus ranged against one another . but the heart of achilles was set on meeting hector son of priam from the body of the car there went a pole of silver , on to the end of which she bound the golden yoke , with the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses then juno put her steeds under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear 
