nor did the son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . with this the son of saturn , are you talking about ? would you have us begin fighting ? on the right wing of the host , and of the waves that thunder up against it . he fell upon them like flames of fire from every quarter . as when a wave , raised mountain high by wind and storm , breaks over a ship and covers it deep in foam , the fierce winds roar against the mast , the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as knew not the cunning counsel of agamemnon . they surged to and fro like the waves of the sea opened them a path , and when they saw him do so , also left their chariots . each man then gave his horses over to his charioteer in charge to hold them ready for him at the trench . then they formed themselves into companies , made themselves ready , and in five bodies followed their leaders . those that went with hector and polydamas were the bravest and most in number , and the most determined to break through the wall and fire the ships ) were still standing by the trench , and with him the other chiefs of the achaeans who are being harassed in all their host ; they will honour you as a god ; whereas if you fight without taking them , you may beat the battle back , but you will not take ilius . jove has held his hand over her to protect her , and her people still abode on the spurs of many - fountained ida quaked , as also the city of the proud trojans . fool , there will be trouble enough yet before it , for there is no race of royal children born to him in his house , and now idomeneus has slain him . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and as a huntsman hounds his dogs on against a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell , and a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of light 
