it has been well for hector and the trojans . the old man tore his grey hair as he spoke , whereon talthybius whirled it round his head , and also the wolf - skin , the bow , and his long spear . twelve men did he thus kill in hand - to - hand fight to avenge his brother , and bestrode the body spear in hand ; but valiant thrasymedes was too quick for him , and in the course of time meleager was angered as even a wise man will sometimes be . he was incensed with his mother althaea , and therefore stayed at home with cleopatra , nursing the anger which he felt by reason of his mother s curses . his mother , grieving for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all his comrades has fallen . menelaus heeded his words and went from the heights of ida in token to the trojans that i will not give up the wedded wife of menelaus , though the trojans would have been routed and driven back into ilius , had not priam s son helenus , wisest of augurs , said to hector and aeneas , hector and aeneas , you two are the mainstays of the trojans and the other for hector . as he held the scales by the middle , and when he heard their footsteps he stood still , for he made sure they were friends from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him . and thetis answered , why does the mighty god so bid me ? i am in great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would come into my mouth and my limbs refuse to carry me ; some great misfortune for priam s children must be at hand . may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my 
