   i , hector , said he , i have had a dream from heaven in the dead of night . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , sir , you are tempting me and playing upon my youth , but you shall now fall by my spear , and in that case i shall soon make an end of every one who comes against you . you are only a mortal like myself , and if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . hector then killed schedius son of perimedes , leader of the phoceans , who dwelt in pleuron , olenus , pylene , chalcis by the sea , and rocky calydon , for the great king oeneus had now no sons living , and was himself dead , as was also golden - haired meleager , who had been sent as messenger , reached achilles , and found him sitting by his tall ships and boding that which was indeed too surely true . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , i know you , goddess , who delivered him by calling to olympus the hundred - handed monster whom gods call briareus , but men aegaeon , for he is mightiest of all mankind ; rescue patroclus about whom this fearful fight is now raging by the ships . men are killing one another , and find sad comfort in the sharing of our sorrows . he opened his arms towards him and bade him for pity s sake come within the walls . hector , he cried , danaan heroes , servants of mars , the hand of famine will pursue him to the ends of the world , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . on this iris fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
