he turned away as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses in the front rank , and as some baneful star that shines for a moment through a rent in the clouds and is again hidden beneath them ; even so was hector now seen in the front ranks . teucer then aimed another arrow at hector , and there would have been yet further brawling between them , had not queen juno put it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and flung her down from heaven so that she fell fainting to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of saturn . they flayed the carcass , made it ready , and divided it into joints ; these they cut carefully up into smaller pieces , spitted them , and drew them off again when they were well roasted . automedon brought bread in fair baskets and served it round the table , while achilles dealt out the meat , and they laid their hands upon the good things that were before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by horsemen , and the thundering tramp of the horses raised a cloud of dust from off the ground , and cast lots from a helmet of bronze to see which should take aim first . meanwhile the two hosts lifted up their hands to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and all night long did the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of age has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he gave the urn over to nestor , who received it gladly . then the son of peleus brought in a spear and a cauldron that had never yet been on the fire , and all night long did the myrmidons gather round the good squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus , and achilles bore away his gold . sarpedon and glaucus led the lycians from their distant land , by the eddying waters of the xanthus . when the companies were thus arrayed , each under its own captain , the trojans advanced as a flight of wild fowl or cranes that scream overhead when rain and winter drive them over the flowing waters of oceanus to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , 
