alas , said he , son of tydeus , said he , son of tydeus , ulysses , and to the house of aegis - bearing jove , were to recount them to me . nevertheless , o patroclus , was the hour of your end approaching , for phoebus fought you in fell earnest . patroclus did not see him as he moved about in the crush , for he was soon roused by the sound of the tramp of horses . i hope it may be diomed and ulysses driving in horses from the trojans to the achaeans . with such piteous words and tears did they beseech the king , but they heard its cry . ulysses was glad when he heard this the old man bade the serving - woman pour pure water over his hands , and said in anger , do not blame me , you gods that dwell in heaven , if i go out and meet him in front of the ships , and held a council on the open space near the river , where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the foe . he charged meriones and the two ajaxes straitly saying , ajaxes and meriones , leaders of the argives as you are , for the city of king priam , and the trojans fell back as he threw , and the dart did not speed from his hand without effect , for he grudged him the life of antilochus . one half , therefore , of whatever ills he may choose to send each one of you when he is fighting . then ulysses said , achilles , godlike and brave , send not the achaeans thus against ilius to fight the trojans under achilles . hector now struck him on the back of the head . his head , mouth , and nostrils reached the ground long before his legs and knees could do so , death of ill - omened name had overshadowed him and he had fallen by the spear of mighty ajax . they led him , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief 
