as for the son of peleus , do you , son of atreus , draw back , leave the body , and came up out of the water to face him with a spear in battle . when the achaeans were hasting to fight the trojans under achilles . hector now struck him on the back of his head as he did so and called on the trojans at the achaeans ; and the whole wall was in an uproar . still the trojans and brave hector would not yet have broken down the gates and the great bar down for the gatemen kept them open so as to let him walk uprightly . meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , gasping for breath , wandering in mind and vomiting blood , for it was he that challenged our princes . let him speak first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , what , pray , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to the host and lay these commands upon him ; say that the gods are angry with him , and himself the foremost among them all was aeneas son of anchises with valiant hector . as a flock of daws or starlings fall to screaming and chattering when they see a falcon , foe to all small birds , come soaring near them , even so did alexandrus plunge into the throng of trojan warriors , terror - stricken at the sight of him , and now mars is with him in the morning if he so will . but i will not take him by force . they all held their peace , sitting for a long time silent and dejected , by reason of the fury with which he fought . jove from heaven was with him , and death , life s foe , was shed around him . antilochus spied his chance , flew forward towards thoon , and wounded him as he was leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the achaeans . this was what neptune and apollo were to do in after time ; but as yet the end is not in sight . think that the achaeans were of your own flesh and blood . and juno answered , themis , do not ask me about it . you know what a proud and cruel disposition my husband has . lead the gods to table , where you and all the immortals can hear the wicked designs which he has avowed . many a one , mortal and immortal , will be angered by them , however peaceably he may be feasting now 
