      so long as the achaeans and trojans were fighting about the wall , but were not yet within it and at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . but when fair rosy - fingered morn appeared . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them . but as concerning the dead , i give you leave to burn them , for when men are once dead there should be no grudging them the rites of fire . let jove the mighty husband of juno be witness to this covenant . as he spoke there stood up a champion both brave and of great stature , who was brought up in fertile thrace , the mother of sheep . cisses , his mother s father , brought him up in his own house ; i said that i would bring his brave son back again to opoeis after he had sacked ilius and taken his share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus was in the outer court , roasting the fat thigh - bones of heifers upon every one of them , so eager was he to ransom the body of his son . then meges struck the topmost crest of dolops s bronze helmet with his spear and said , stand , or i shall throw my spear , and in that case i say that you are son to noble peleus , and that your mother is thetis , fair - haired daughter of the sea . the gods rose from their seats , before the coming of their sire . not one of them left . i had fifty sons when the achaeans came here ; nineteen of them were from a single womb , and the others were borne to me by the women of my household . the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one that was most beautifully enriched with embroidery , as an offering to minerva : it glittered like a star , and lay at the very bottom of the chest . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her earrings , 
