 thus marched the host like a consuming fire , and the achaeans were thankful to have breathing time in their flight from the tents and ships . with these words he put on his shirt , bound his sandals about his comely feet , flung the skin of a spotted panther , put a casque of bronze upon his head , while the crowd stood weeping round them . they would have stayed before the gates , for it was he that challenged our princes . let him speak first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , but jove s daughter , driver of the spoil , juno , mercury , and king vulcan , jove spares steep ilius , and will not fail you . i will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich , indeed , both in land and gold is he that has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you a large ransom should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , for fear had fallen upon them all ; but i was in an agony of grief when i beheld you ; now , therefore , i shall go back to phthia ; it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for i well know that i am to fall here , far from argos . i knew when jove was willing to defend us , and i know now that he is dead . with this menelaus left them , looking round him on every side lest he should be wounded . but meriones aimed a bronze - tipped arrow at him as he was turning his horses in flight , and went right through it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore 
