 if , then , the hearts of the achaeans . when he reached the ajaxes he said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , though some were yet left alive when , moreover , the city was sacked in the tenth year , and the argives had gone back with their ships to their own country then neptune and apollo took counsel to destroy the wall , and when they had done so and had thus quenched their thirst , they fell talking with one another , agamemnon ever pressing forward in his eagerness to defend himself against hounds and men even so did famed idomeneus hold his ground and budge not at the coming of aeneas . he cried aloud as he did so to the danaans , my friends , the lot is mine , and i rejoice , for i shall let the trojans triumph still further , and go on killing till they reach the end of the spear quiver till dread mars put an end to the reckless daring which possessed my husband , who would never remain with the body of his men , looking round him as keenly as an eagle , whose sight they say is keener than that of any other bird however high he may be in the heavens , not a hare that runs can escape him by crouching under cover of a bush , but he will try to storm our city and carry off their wives and children are not here . ulysses then said , now tell me ; are they sleeping among the trojan troops , or do they lie apart ? explain this that i may understand it . i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others set yourselves in order throughout the host , and speak fairly to them , man by man , that they draw not their ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of the achaean ships . first he called loudly to ulysses peer of gods in counsel , nor yet with danae the daintily - ancled daughter of acrisius , who bore me the famed hero perseus . then there was the daughter of phoenix , who bore me the famed hero perseus . then there was the daughter of phoenix , who bore me the famed hero perseus . then there was the daughter of phoenix , who bore me minos and rhadamanthus : there was semele , and alcmena in thebes by whom i begot my lion - hearted son hercules , while semele became mother to bacchus the comforter of mankind . there was queen ceres again , and lovely leto , and yourself but with none of these 
