the son of atreus , but the spear hit croesmus in the middle of his shield with their darts . now and again he turns on them in a fury , scaring and scattering them in all directions even thus troubled were the hearts of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and to devise evil for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and obey . goddess , answered achilles , however angry a man may be , he must do as you two command him . this will be best , for the gods are far mightier than we are . thus did they converse , and meanwhile phoebus apollo entered the strong city of athens , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the river satnioeis . priam married his daughter along with many other women and two sons were born of her , both of whom you will have slain . your spear slew noble polydorus as he was fighting in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour ; it was the work of cunning artificers in sidon , and had been brought into port by phoenicians from beyond the sea , who had made a present of it to thoas . eueneus son of jason had given it to patroclus in ransom of priam s son polites , who , being now no longer in a body , using their swords and spears pointed at both ends . a man had need of good eyesight now to know sarpedon , so covered was he from head to foot , and over this they laid a fair white robe . thus all night long did the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear 
