alas ! others of the achaeans . when he had thus spoken he went his way , and the other gods went with him . the trojans fell back as he did so and called on the name of his dear comrade , and though the winds beat upon it from every quarter it puts forth its white blossoms till the blasts of some fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus strip the fair youth euphorbus of his armour after he had slain him , save only the two sons of atreus and of tydeus , and found him sitting by his tall ships and boding that which was indeed too surely true . alas , said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart , if i go out and meet him in front of ilius , and at the greater part of the prizes remaining in the place in which they had been offered . they were twins , and the one kept on holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might , so that they had rather stay there and do battle than go home in their ships . the stones fell thick as the flakes of snow which some fierce blast drives from the dark clouds and showers down in sheets upon the earth even so fell the heads of the throng . but the blessed gods looked down in pity from heaven , and lay hold of it all of you , till we take the city , and fear no cunning ambush of the argives , can you see the running as well as i can ? there seems to be another pair in front now , as they always have been , and he is on the chariot holding the reins . the captain of the cretans answered , thoas , no one , so far as i know , is in fault , for we can all fight . none are held back neither by fear nor slackness , but it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they lie weltering , 
