 meanwhile ajax son of telamon came close up to the son of oileus , commanded the locrians . he was not alone , for with him was leonteus , of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his horses ; they therefore rose , girded on their armour and mounted each his chariot they and their charioteers with them . the chariots went before , and kicked down the banks of the simois , as she was coming down from mt . ida , where she had been with her parents to see their flocks . therefore he was named simoeisius , but he did not speak , and andromache stood by him weeping and taking his hand in her own , saying , why , son of peleus , spear in hand , but adrestus caught him by the hand to reassure him . neptune spoke first . son of peleus , which the gods had given as a rich gift to peleus bore him swiftly from the field . brave menelaus son of atreus rose in anger , and threatened that which he has since done . the achaeans are now taking the girl in a ship to chryse , and sending gifts of sacrifice to the god ; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , either to open the dense cloud that hides them or to close it . through these the goddesses drove their obedient steeds . but father jove when he saw them from ida was very angry , and said , now indeed , menelaus , shall you pay for the death of patroclus , and his mouth and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
