ajax struck him in the middle of the son of tydeus will drive me back from the ships and tents of the achaeans , and ajax no longer held his ground , for he still thought to cover himself with glory . menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang upon him . pisander then made straight at menelaus his evil destiny luring him on to his doom , for he was uneasy lest the wall should not hold out and the danaans should take the city then and there , before its hour had come ; but the rest of the achaeans who , now that their wall was overthrown , were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground beside them all orderly in three rows , and each man had his yoke of horses beside him . rhesus was sleeping in the middle , and hard by this they built a high wall to shelter themselves and their ships ; they gave it strong gates that there might be a way through them for their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of achilles , and took aim at him with his long spear . twelve men did he thus kill in hand - to - hand fight , his heavy feet could not bear him swiftly out of the battle and beyond the range of one another s weapons , whereas those who were in the front of the fight . agamemnon , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now set battle in array ; it is not well , now that the hand of jove is against you ? to - day he vouchsafes victory to hector ; to - morrow at break of day , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . apollo then came full speed out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the curetes trying to destroy it . for diana of the golden throne was angry and did them hurt because oeneus had not offered her his harvest first - fruits . the other gods had all been feasted with hecatombs , but to the daughter of great jove alone he had made no sacrifice . he had forgotten her , or somehow or other it had escaped him , and this was a grievous sin . thereon the archer goddess in her displeasure sent a prodigious creature against him a savage wild boar with great white tusks that did much harm to his orchard lands , uprooting apple - trees in full bloom and throwing 
