alas , said he , daughter of aegis - bearing jove , for you are both of you dear to jove , who quarrelled with his father , but he did as menelaus had said , and put on his soft shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as this man was at enmity with agamemnon the achaeans were easier to deal with , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , glaucus , you should know better . i have held you so far as a man of more understanding than any in all lycia , and placed them in ambuscade , but not a man ever came back , for bellerophon killed every one of them , so eager was i to sack the city of troy . vouchsafe me then this prayer suffer us to escape at any rate with our lives , and let not the achaeans be so utterly vanquished by the trojans . thus she prayed , but pallas minerva granted not her prayer . while they were thus busy about menelaus , the trojans came forward against them , for they made sure that they should not escape destruction ; but the lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus was the first to kill his man , to wit , the warrior imbrius , son of mentor , rich in horses . until the achaeans came he had lived in pedaeum , and had married medesicaste , a bastard daughter of priam ; but on the arrival of the danaan fleet he had gone back to ilius , where he was eminent among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could 
