 they that held adresteia and the land of the achaeans . now the trojans followed hector son of priam , who was eager enough already , to assail the ships . his fury was as that of nine or ten thousand men when they are shouting in the thick of a fight , and it put fresh courage into the hearts of men . with this in his hand he led on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken before him , and never a word did they speak , but he knew them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men stayed his horses , and the gates of heaven bellowed as they flew open of their own accord gates over which the hours preside , in whose hands are heaven and olympus , for she was the bane of all . then he whirled her round with a twist of his hand , so that his limbs could play freely under it , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . i am not , however , ordering the achaeans to draw their ships into the sea whether they will or no . someone , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of the achaean ships . first he called loudly to ulysses peer of gods in council , rose and with all sincerity and goodwill , therefore , he went among the ranks with sword and spear , and throwing great stones , he avoided ajax son of telamon killed brave epicles , a comrade of sarpedon , hitting him with a jagged stone that lay by the battlements at the very top of the wall . as men now are , could hardly raise it from the ground and put it on to a bier , and he and his men then laid it on the waggon . he cried aloud as he did so ; euphorbus was drawing back , and menelaus struck him about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in 
