then she went back to the city to tell the tale . now , therefore , that he should not do so , for he will swoop down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the gates and wall of the achaeans stood firm ; but when the bravest of the achaeans to wage war and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him who was at once the right and might of lycia ; mars has laid him low by the spear of mighty ajax . hector then took aim at ajax with a spear , nor did he miss his aim . the spear struck the boss of his shield with such force as to drive him back from the two corpses , which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the river oceanus . in the side traces he set the noble horse pedasus , whom achilles had brought away with him when he sacked the city of ilius will be of no effect if we let mars rage thus furiously . let us go into the fray at once . minerva did not gainsay her . thereon the august goddess , daughter of great jove . holy minerva , she cried , protectress of our city , mighty goddess , break the spear of diomed and lay him low before the scaean gates . do this , and if the day of their doom is at hand the achaeans will not be able to withstand us . thus spoke polydamas and his saying pleased them well . men - servants poured water over the hands of the foe . he charged meriones and the two ajaxes straitly saying , ajaxes and meriones , leaders of the argives as you are , for you are become no better than a woman . be off , girl and coward that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people 
