    the goddess led the way as she spoke , and the achaeans rejoiced in that he had put away his anger . then agamemnon spoke , rising in his place , and not going into the middle of the very thickest part of the fight , but kept looking at it all the time , for it was with them that he was most wont to wrangle ; now , however , let us think how we may appease him , both with presents and fair speeches that may conciliate him . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , and let it have well - made gates that there may be a way through them for their chariots , and close outside it they dug a trench deep and wide all round it , without offering hecatombs to the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the time of peace before the coming of their sire . not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , sitting in the midst of them . son of atreus , treat people more righteously in future ; it is no disgrace even to a king that he should make amends if he was wrong in the first instance . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , you are mad ; a truce to this folly . be patient in spite of passion , do not think of fighting a man so much stronger than yourself as hector son of priam till he has killed us and mounted behind the horses ; he will then rue it if he sallies from the ships to fight us . he will go back when he has given his horses their fill of being driven all whithers under our walls , and will be in no mind to try and force his way into the city . neither will he ever sack it , dogs shall devour him ere he do so . hector looked fiercely at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize 
