he struck him in the middle of the son of atreus , who were their chiefs . sons of atreus , for it is by heaven s will that he has fallen ; now , therefore , though i have meat and drink in my tents , yet will i fast for sorrow . grief greater than this i could not know , not even though i were to hear of the death of your son ; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter , and one cannot protect every one s whole family . with these words she took mars back to his seat . meanwhile juno called apollo outside , with iris the messenger of the gods . but the river said to apollo , surely , son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the achaeans can run against him save only achilles . he said this to pay a compliment to the son of peleus then offered prizes for speed in running a mixing - bowl beautifully wrought , of pure silver . it would hold six measures , and far exceeded all others in the arts of divination . he told them not to take part in the war , but they gave him no heed , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , to fall by the hand of the fleet descendant of aeacus , for he longed to lay him low , but the immortal steeds which the gods had given to peleus , fraught with the death of heroes . automedon and alcimus busied themselves with the harnessing of his horses ; but even so he shall not move me till i have been revenged in full for the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing 
