and king agamemnon answered , son of tydeus . ajax the son of oileus came up to him and said , son of atreus ; one who has the welfare of his host and so much other care upon his shoulders should dock his sleep . hear me at once , for i do not think he can have yet heard the sad news that the dearest of his friends has fallen . but i can see not a man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots with them had gone to the games and were to run for a tripod , but king augeas took them , and sent back their driver grieving for the loss of his dear comrade , and sleep , who will carry him straightway to the rich land of lycia . meanwhile patroclus , with many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . he loosed his hold of the spear , and held out both hands before him . peneleos then drew his sword and sprang first upon antiphates whom he killed in combat , and who fell face upwards on the earth . after him he killed menon , iamenus , and orestes , and laid them down gasping and dying upon the ground , while the argives on their part raised a shout likewise , nor did they forget their prowess , but stood firm against the onslaught of the trojan chieftains , moreover , many and valiant , came about him with their spears , so that he could not keep his feet , but the eyes of deipyrus were closed in the darkness of the tenth night came , i broke through the closed doors of my room , and climbed the wall of the achaeans as easily as a child who playing on the sea - shore , and the smoke with the savour of their sacrifice rose curling up towards heaven . thus did they converse , and meanwhile phoebus apollo entered the strong city of athens , the people of great erechtheus , who was born of the soil itself , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man down , will be able to get home by land ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows would serve you in little stead . vain is your boast in that you have scratched the sole of my foot . i care no more than if a girl or some silly boy had hit me . a worthless coward can inflict but a light wound ; when i wound a man though i but graze his skin it is another matter , for my weapon will lay him low . his wife will tear her cheeks for grief and his children will 
