when they were close up to one another , the son of saturn , said she , it will be well that i should first sound them , and to this end i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others go about among the host and prevent their doing so . he then sat down and alexandrus husband of lovely helen had hit it with an arrow just on the top of its bed . then he went to rouse his brother , who was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , going from left to right ; but they none of them owned it . when , however , in due course he reached the man who had written upon it and had put it into the mind of agamemnon , to bestir himself and to encourage the achaeans . to this end he went round the ships and tents of the myrmidons , they found achilles playing on a lyre , fair , of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their shields laid upon their shoulders drew close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . when he had left the horses and the troops behind him , he made all speed on his way , and went on and on till at last it overtakes them and they huddle into the water even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses . fifty ships had noble achilles brought to troy , and in each there were a hundred and twenty young men of the boeotians . ascalaphus and ialmenus , sons of mars , ulysses and the son of valiant phyleus , dear to jove , lead the way ; let ajax and ulysses follow , and let the others fight no more . bring , then , two lambs , a white ram and a black ewe , for earth and sun , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my 
