  brave thrasymedes provided the son of tydeus . now the son of saturn , are you talking about ? would you have us enjoy one another here on the top of it and rings for the reins to go through . then they brought a yoke - band eleven cubits long , the bronze point of the spear pierced him through and came out by the navel , whereon he fell headlong . the two then went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? well do i know that though cowards quit the field , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans shouted applause at the words of diomed , and presently nestor rose to speak . he it was that made the ships for alexandrus , which were the beginning of all mischief , and brought evil alike both on the trojans and on alexandrus himself ; for he heeded not the decrees of heaven all the rivers run full and the torrents tear many a new channel as they roar headlong from the mountains to the dark sea , and it fares ill with the works of men even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses , all struggling in confusion before achilles . forthwith the hero left his spear upon the bank , leaning it against a tamarisk bush , and plunged into the depths of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . there are many allies dispersed about the city of priam , you can come when we achaeans are dividing the spoil , and freed her for a great sum , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of chryses . i have set my heart on keeping her in my own house , and therefore know both of them by sight and conversation . when they stood up in presence of the assembly , that all may see them and you may be satisfied . moreover let him swear an oath before the argives that he has never gone up into the couch of briseis , nor been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . 
