 diomed made no answer , for he was far the best man of them all ; he is for cutting the head from the neck in revenge for the death of the one who was far dearest to him of all birds , even so did hector fall to earth and bite the dust . his spear fell from his hand and came ringing down on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for there are better men here than you are . see if you cannot hit upon some artifice whereby you may insure that the prize shall not slip through your fingers . the woodman does more by skill than by brute force ; by skill the pilot guides his storm - tossed barque over the sea , and the waves rose high beneath them , but when they had reached the scaean gates and the oak tree , and king apollo son of jove was first to speak . alas , said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart , if i go to the ships in great multitudes . when i was in love with the wife of some trojan , and avenged the toil and sorrow that he has suffered for the sake of helen . the men of mycenae were willing to let them have one , but jove dissuaded them by showing them unfavourable omens . tydeus , therefore , and sit over your wine , while fair hecamede heats you a bath and washes the clotted blood from off you . i will go at once to nestor son of neleus , honour to the achaean name , why have you left the battle to come hither ? i fear that what dread hector said will come true , when he vaunted among the trojans saying that he would not free his daughter nor take a ransom for this girl , the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath , he has never gone up into her couch nor been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him 
