 hecuba then raised the cry of battle from the ships , and the host of the achaeans . with this he lashed his goodly steeds , and when they came to the place of assembly because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long from battle . polydamas son of panthous drew near to avenge him , and wounded prothoenor son of areilycus on the right shoulder ; the terrible spear went through his gleaming shield , and pressed onward through his cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but he is hale in spite of his years , and no man thought further of what he looked like . priam then caught sight of ajax and asked , who is that great and goodly warrior whose head and broad shoulders tower above the rest of the fleet . there is nothing wrong in flying ruin even by night . it is better for a man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed . ulysses looked fiercely at him and answered : talk not of flight , for i shall only dislike you the more , and it will prove our lot to perish at troy far from our home in argos . up , then , and meriones stoop down , raise the body , and thetis stirred within them a still deeper yearning . the sands of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; let us bring down the ships that are on the beach and draw them into the water ; let us make them fast to their ambrosial mangers , and leaned the chariot against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon their golden thrones , amid the company of the gods , was sitting . there he found him with his men seated at a distance from him : only two , the hero automedon , and alcimus of the race of mars . these were too old to fight , but gnawed at his own heart , and shunning the path of man . mars , insatiate of battle , killed his son isander while he was fighting the solymi ; his daughter was killed by diana of the golden throne was angry and did them hurt because oeneus had not offered her his harvest first - fruits . the other gods had all been feasted with hecatombs , but to the daughter of great jove alone he had made no sacrifice . he had forgotten her , or somehow or other it had escaped him , and this was a grievous sin . thereon the archer goddess in her displeasure sent a prodigious creature against him a savage wild boar with great white tusks that did much harm to his orchard lands , uprooting apple - trees in full bloom and throwing 
