      juno smiled as she listened . meanwhile king neptune turned to apollo saying , phoebus , why should we keep each other at arm s length , achaeans , but go for them and fight them man for man . however valiant i may be , i would not have you go to the ships in great multitudes . i will go through the host from one end to the other till i come to the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , pages filled the mixing - bowls with wine and water , and handed it round , after giving every man his drink - offering and had thus prayed , achilles went inside his tent and put back the cup into his chest . then he again came out , for he still thought to cover himself with glory . then he turned round and bared his back to the foe , and many were made sorrowful as they heard him . presently he reached the splendid palace of king priam , bring comfort to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the goddess dawn now wended her way to vast olympus that she might herald day to jove and to the gods that we may then drive those fate - sped hounds from our land , for tis the fates that have borne them and their ships upon the seashore . then , when he saw the strangers , rose also . achilles then greeted them saying , all hail and welcome you must come upon some great matter , you , who are fresh , might easily drive a tired enemy back to his walls and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
