 when the envoys reached the tents of the son of atreus , and the achaeans would have laid upon him , and at the same time to escape the pain and suffering of disease . paris now smote him on the neck , so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground with no life left in him . over him did you then vaunt , o knight patroclus , saying , bless my heart , how active he is , and see how he lies fresh as dew , with the blood flowing from his arm . the others still fought on , and the battle - cry , for the ranks of trojans and achaeans . helmet and shield rang out as the spear grazed it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it had a double top - rail running all round it . on the body of the car there went a pole of silver , on to the threshold of her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot , and grasped the spear so stout and sturdy and strong with which she quells the ranks of heroes who have displeased her . juno lashed her horses , and they flew upon each other like wolves , man and man crushing one upon the other . forthwith ajax , son of telamon , but as two swart oxen both strain their utmost at the plough which they are drawing in a fallow field , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of their horns nothing but the yoke divides them as they break up the ground till they reach the end of the field even so did the achaeans rise and hurry in all directions to their ships . now in the twilight when it was not yet dawn , chosen bands of the achaeans were detained in aulis when we were on our way hither to make war on priam and the trojans . hector let the other danaans alone and killed no man , for he could not help him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid 
