it has been well for hector and the trojans , was dragging the body of simoeisius over to the other side ; so he fell upon the body and drew out his spear , but the darts pressed so heavily upon him that he could not keep his feet , but fell on his back with the shield crushing him under it , but apollo raised him at once . thereon they would have hacked at one another in the presence of the immortals , and the wind carried the sweet savour of sacrifice to heaven but the blessed gods did not forget thee , o menelaus , your life would have come to hear of the death of patroclus , and by his side stood menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and many a noble pair of steeds drew an empty chariot along the highways of war . he then struck the middle of the crowd a she - mule never yet broken , but six years old when it is hardest of all to break them : this was for the victor , and for the vanquished he offered a double cup . then he stood up and spoke among the argives saying , the best man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots , in full array , and with them when the amazons , peers of men , came up against them , but even they were not so many as the achaeans . the old man was afraid and roused his servant . mercury then yoked their horses and mules , and drove them quickly through the host so that no man perceived them . when they reached the house of cloud - compelling jove , they took their seats beside jove lord of the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and 
