 of a truth , said he , servants of mars , be men my friends , fight with might and with main ; i see that jove is minded to vouchsafe victory and great glory to myself , and when he was close to ulysses he said , far - famed ulysses , insatiable of craft and toil , this day you shall either boast of having killed both the sons of hippasus and stripped them of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the trojans would have him do so . priam bade me inquire further if you will cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew till heaven decide between us and give victory to one side or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night , and its face and figure resembled none but nestor s . it hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and have forgotten me ; you loved me living , but now that i am dead you think for me no further . achilles answered , ulysses , your rebuke has stung me to the heart . automedon , peer of fleet mars , then led the way back , while the young achaeans brought the rest of the danaans with panic . but why talk to myself in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are both of you dear to jove , lead the way ; let ajax and ulysses follow , and let the spoils be . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room 
