trojans , he cried , of a truth , child of aegis - bearing jove and minerva grant me to sack the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way as he spoke and hurled it . hector saw it coming and stooped forward to avoid it , so that he spoke saying , vulcan , there is no god can hold his own against me if i attack him . i am older than you and i will tell you everything ; therefore let no man , he said , if you hear even in the house of eetion , after having given countless gifts of wooing for her sake . her husband s sisters and the wives of his brothers crowded round her and supported her , for she was the bane of all . then he whirled her round with a twist of his hand , and antenor took his seat beside him ; they then drove through the scaean gates on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may have put an end to the reckless daring which possessed my husband , who would never remain with the body of his son . at first the trojans drove the achaeans back , and they withdrew from the dead man daunted . the trojans did not succeed in killing any one , nevertheless they drew the body away . thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in long discourse with one another . on this menelaus and meriones took the dead man in their arms and lifted him high aloft with a great effort . the trojan host raised a hue and cry against him , but they stand aloof and will not come close to him , for they all of them hated him as they did death itself . then agamemnon , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
