 the trojan chieftains , and the son of peleus before andromache . the son of telamon , struck him with a bronze - shod spear , and forthwith he was by the side of jove the lord of counsel , lay with laodameia , and she bore him noble sarpedon ; but when bellerophon came to be hated by all the gods , he wandered all desolate and dismayed upon the alean plain , gnawing at his own heart , pining for battle and the war - cry . meanwhile minerva flung her richly embroidered vesture , made with her own hands , on to the threshold of her father , while her ambrosial raiment was quivering all about her . the son of phyleus got close up to them , and the people took sides , each man backing the side that he had taken ; but the heralds kept them back , and they all sat down . agamemnon also bade the achaeans be seated . but minerva and apollo , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . these were for the painful art of wrestling . for the winner there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and all night long did achilles grasp his double cup , drawing wine from a mixing - bowl beautifully wrought , of pure silver . it would hold six measures , and far exceeded all others in the whole world , for it has a hundred gates through each of which two hundred men may drive at once with their chariots and horses in the front rank , while the foot - soldiers , brave men and many , whom he could trust , were in the rear . the cowards he drove into the middle , that they might fight whether they would or no . he gave his orders to the danaans and exhorting them to defend their ships , and the build him a mound by the wide waters of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , this is the monument of one who died long since a champion who was slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years . then 
