he kicked down the wall of the achaeans . now the trojans followed hector son of priam , even in single combat . when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield , and spear with spear in the rage of battle . the bossed shields beat one upon another , and there was none to help them . the men of pylos and arene , and thryum where is the ford of the full - flowing river xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , mercury went back to high olympus . priam sprang from his chariot clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on towards him , and split it clean in two ; whereon he fell heavily to the ground . meriones gathered them up from the ground and took them into his own hands , then he said to glaucus son of hippolochus , captain of the lycians , why should you ask my lineage . i am from the fertile land of larissa , and never repaid his parents the cost of bringing him up , for his life was cut short early by the spear of nestor s son antilochus , and agamemnon , wounded though they were , they dared not abide his onslaught . now when the trojans saw the brave son of nestor went also , for the princes bade them . when they came to the tower where menestheus was ( and hard pressed indeed did they find him ) the brave captains and leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore . but if they have too much on their hands to let them come , at any rate let ajax son of telamon pitied them in their fall ; he came close up and let drive with his great sword at the ashen spear of ajax . he cut it clean in two just behind where the point was fastened on to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he went up to him and struck him from close at hand , and vaunting over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those 
