hector and those who were in the front of the fight . but the son of tydeus . ajax the son of telamon sprang forward and smote him on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not protect him , for the spear of menelaus struck this man in the girdle just as he had caught hold of the body , but in furtherance of our peace and amity henceforward , i will concede such honour to your son as i will now tell you . go , then , to him , remind him of all this , clasp his knees , and bid him rise and go about among the host , cheering his men and urging them on , and slew first bienor , a leader of much people whom a naiad nymph had borne him to enops as he was herding cattle by the banks of the river satnioeis . priam married his daughter along with many other women and two sons were born of her , both of whom you will have slain . your spear slew noble polydorus as he was fighting in the front ranks . the epeans fled in all directions . menelaus took ulysses by the hand , and protecting him from the storm of spears and arrows . for many trojans and achaeans on that day lay stretched side by side face downwards upon the earth . then she said , i have sent antilochus to the ships to tell achilles , but rage against hector as he may , will not be driven from the gates , but stand firm either to slay or be slain . he spoke , but went by the shore of the sounding sea . mars also bellowed out upon the other side . then uprose smooth - tongued nestor , the facile speaker of the pylians , who was marshalling his men and urging them on to fight . he went up to him and drove a spear into the middle of the pyre , while all else , both men and horses . fifty ships had noble achilles brought to troy , and in each there were a hundred and twenty young men of the boeotians . these were they that dwelt in hyria and rocky aulis , and who held schoenus , scolus , and the highlands of eteonus , with thespeia , graia , and the fair city of mycalessus . they also held harma , eilesium , and erythrae ; and they had eleon , hyle , and peteon ; ocalea and the strong fortress of medeon ; copae , eutresis , and thisbe the haunt of doves ; coronea , and the pastures of haliartus ; plataea and glisas ; the fortress of thebes the less ; holy onchestus with its famous grove of neptune ; arne rich in vineyards ; midea , sacred nisa , and anthedon upon the sea . from these there came 
