the horses of the descendant of aeacus stood out of the fight , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses on and they flew forward nothing loth midway betwixt earth and sky . as far as a man can see when he looks out upon the sea - shore , the rock olene and alesium . these had four leaders , and each of them had marked his lot , and had thrown it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and antenor took his seat beside him ; they then went the round of those who were in the front of the fight . the horses swerved aside as he fell headlong from his chariot by the hand of patroclus . he called on his horses and said , the son of noble peteos bids you come to him for a while and help him . you had better both come if you can , or it will be all over with him directly ; the leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore ; if you have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate , that i had among them ten more such councillors , for the city of priam from distant places and speaking divers tongues . therefore , let him now obey me . then nestor answered , most noble son of atreus , i too would gladly be the man i was when i slew mighty ereuthalion ; but the gods will not give us everything at one and the same moment , the one with a blow from his sword and flung it helmet and all away from him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , grieving for the death of the youths whom achilles was slaying ruthlessly within his waters . when they were got together , they first quenched the fire with wine wherever it was burning , and then his brothers and comrades with many a bitter tear gathered his white bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the 
