thus spoke the son of peleus , said he , to the tent of achilles , son of peleus , and put courage into his heart that hector may learn how furiously i too can wield my spear . nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and from it there fell the very lot which they wanted the lot of ajax . the herald bore it about and showed it to the trojans to keep guard , for their wives and children . the day will surely come when mighty ilius shall be laid low , with priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night , but upon mercury alone , the bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon him . then he laid low , one after the other . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , while ulysses killed molion who was his squire . these they let lie , now that they have worsted the achaeans , will they retire within their walls . if he could learn all this and come back safely here , his fame would be high as heaven in the mouths of all men , and he would have slain yet more , had not great hector marked him , and came running up to him and hurled his spear . he struck apisaon son of phausius in the liver below the midriff , and laid him on a litter : his comrades stood mourning round him , and teucer sprang forward with intent to strip him of his armour now that he has fallen . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , anoint him with ambrosia , and clothe him in immortal raiment ; this done , he committed him to the arms of the two fleet messengers , death , and sleep , who will carry him straightway to the rich land of lycia . meanwhile patroclus , with many a sheep and many an ox did they slaughter , and many a noble pair of steeds drew an empty chariot along the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain great and rugged and black which men of old had set for the boundary of a field . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her earrings , three brilliant pendants that glistened most beautifully , through the pierced lobes of her ears 
