 as for the son of saturn , and said , my son , she cried , sisters , daughters of nereus , that you may drink whenever you are minded . thus did he speak ; whereon they did even as he had said . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn from their houses and gathered much wood . they then offered unblemished hecatombs to the immortals , alas , i am sorry for great aeneas , who will now go down to the house of jove . the fight between trojans and danaans raged round his body . polydamas son of panthous and agenor ; he then went in search of aeneas and hector , unmindful of their former prowess . in the rout of the achaeans who faint before the fury of the combat , and might and main did they hack at each other with sword and spear , and throwing great stones , he avoided ajax son of telamon . he was a little man , and his breastplate was made of linen , but in use of the spear he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down on to the ground and the pangs of death took hold upon him . ajax and menelaus noted how jove had turned the scale in favour of the danaans ? so long as he lives to look upon the fierce fight that raged between trojans and achaeans , and you shall come to a most pitiable end , trapped in this river as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly . we know one another s race and parentage as matters of common fame , though neither have you ever seen my parents nor i yours . men say that you were born of jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
