hector , said he , noble son of telamon , captain of the lycians , in hard hand - to - hand fight . they had no bronze helmets with plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; then he grasped two redoubtable spears that suited his hands , but he did not go home again . he struck the middle of the press where men were packed most closely , by the stern of his ship , that others may see ; if you will that we perish , let us fall at any rate by daylight . father jove heard him and had compassion upon his tears . forthwith he chased away the cloud of darkness , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his belly , so that his brains were battered in and he was killed in full fight . agamemnon stripped their shirts from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . he made his own horses fast , away from the hurly - burly , and hector bade cebriones drive again into the fight . the battle raged round them like fierce flames that when once kindled spread like wildfire over a city , and the houses fall in the glare of its burning even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses , all struggling in confusion before achilles . forthwith the hero left his spear upon the girdle . he then drew his sword and sprang furiously upon him . asteropaeus vainly tried to draw achilles spear out of the body , but could not strip him of the rest of his armour for the rain of darts that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam , peer of gods in counsel , father jove has sent me to bring you back your child , and to offer sacrifice to apollo on behalf of the danaans , are you then doomed to feed the hounds of troy with your fat , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
