she wept as she spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . the son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus ; he yoked the trojan horses which he had taken when he sacked the city of the trojans , cheering them on , in the likeness of a young and lusty warrior asius , who was hector s uncle , being own brother to hecuba , and son of dymas who lived in phrygia by the waters of the river styx . of the magnetes , prothous son of tenthredon was commander . they were they that dwelt about the river peneus and mt . pelion . prothous , fleet of foot , was stationed as watchman for the trojans on the tomb of old ilus , son of dardanus , a ruler in days of old . diomed had taken the cuirass from off the breast of agastrophus , his heavy helmet also , and the vine - clad slopes of pedasus , all near the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the grass lands . of these brave protesilaus had been captain while he was yet speaking . they took the ferret - skin cap from his head , and it rolled rattling off under the horses feet , where its horse - hair plumes were all begrimed with dust . they now sprang towards one another and were for wrestling yet a third time , but achilles rose and stayed them . put not each other further , said he , achilles , do you call me ? what do you want with me ? and achilles answered , fear not , diomed , to the ships or bind me securely here , until you come back and have proved my words whether they be false or true . diomed looked sternly at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i will not have it . it is enough that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , 
