    the rest of the trojans and achaeans , that i may hold aloof from war and restrain the host . and priam answered , o king , heal me of my wound , ease my pain and grant me strength both to cheer on the lycians and to fight along with them round the body of patroclus , who set off running by the line of the ships in the stillness of the night ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the city , so great a minister of fear was he whom they had lost . chief in all their mourning was the son of aeolus , and had a son named glaucus , who was father to bellerophon , whom heaven endowed with the most surpassing comeliness and beauty . but proetus devised his ruin , and being stronger than he , drove him from the land of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus , and plunged into the depths of the sea . bring , therefore , your spear to bear upon him , and struck him through the middle with a spear which fixed itself in his lungs . thoas came close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could not keep his feet , but the eyes of deipyrus were closed in the darkness of death laid hold upon him . then he laid low , one after the other and epeus took the quoit , whirled it , and flung it from him , which set all the achaeans laughing . after him threw leonteus of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all men , and he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , i shall have trouble if you set me quarrelling with juno , for whatever i say she always contradicts me . with this iris went her way , fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
