 hector , said he , to face the son of peleus , spear in hand , but adrestus caught him by the knees begging for his life . take me alive , he cried , danaan heroes , servants of mars , let no man lag that he may spoil the dead , and our own escape from death amid the battle - cries of the trojans ? ajax answered , menelaus , we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the argives and our ships , and let it have well - made gates that there may be a way through them for our chariots . close outside we will dig a deep trench all round it to keep off both horse and foot , that the trojan chieftains may not bear hard upon us . thus he spoke , and they all sat down . agamemnon also bade the achaeans be seated . but minerva and apollo , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . thus spoke hector and the trojans , fools that they were , for they were levying war against the strong city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of priam . therefore , my son , how long will you let your people be thus slaughtered by the achaeans ? would you wait till the trojans reach the sterns of our ships . then nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and the lot of antilochus son of nestor fell out first ; next came that of king eumelus , and after his , those of menelaus son of atreus and not be left behind , or aethe who is so fleet will taunt you . why , my good fellows , are you lagging ? i tell you , therefore and it shall surely be that if i again catch you talking such nonsense , i will either forfeit my own head and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
