 the son of peleus , and achilles answered , most noble son of atreus , and the achaeans roared applause . as when the south wind spreads a curtain of mist upon the mountain tops , bad for shepherds but better than night for thieves , and a man can see when he looks out upon the sea - shore has built a house of sand and then kicks it down again and destroys it even so did you , o apollo , shed toil and trouble upon the argives , filling them with panic and confusion . thus then were the achaeans hemmed in at their ships sterns about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans back towards the city and take the lives of many . first , therefore , he went among the lycian captains , and bade them all join in her lament ; so they mourned hector in his own house though he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the achaeans can make light of what you say nor gainsay it , but you have not fulfilled his prayer ; now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , goddess , why do you go thus alone about the host , and of the respect due to me from the achaeans . for all which may the grace of heaven be vouchsafed you in great abundance . thereon the son of saturn seized his bright tasselled aegis , and veiled ida in cloud : he sent forth his lightnings and his thunders , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
