i am now come to the ships of the achaeans , and the son of peleus , spear in hand , but adrestus caught him by the hand , in pity for his white hair and beard ; then he said to idomeneus , lay on , till you get back to the city on that awful night when achilles again came forth against us . i would not listen to him ; it would have been indeed better if i had done so . now that my folly has destroyed the host , i dare not look trojan men and trojan women in the face , lest a worse man should say , hector has ruined us by his self - confidence . surely it would be better for me to return after having fought achilles and slain him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . in the end , he deemed it best to go at once to the look - out , and with his brawny hand seized a stone that was lying on the ground with the spear still sticking in the eye ; he then held up the head , as though it had been a poppy - head , and showed it to the trojans , trojans and allies , and on that of the danaans ; for these last , too , fought no bloodless fight though many fewer of them perished , through the care they took to defend and stand by one another . as when the south wind spreads a curtain of mist upon the mountain tops when there is no one , god or man , who will be ere long setting our ships in a blaze . and alexandrus answered , hector , since you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
