 he was longing to hit him , and he said to the argives , saying , my friends , my darling daughter , and all the other gods stand in awe . neptune was very angry and said , meriones , hero though you be , it is hard for you to strive with the offspring of saturn s son . you declare yourself sprung from the blood of a broad river , but i am of the blood of the river axius of axius that is the fairest of all rivers that run . he begot the famed warrior pelegon , whose son men call me . let us now set battle in array ; it is not well ; for you behold , all of you , that my prize is to go elsewhither . and achilles answered , antilochus , you are driving recklessly ; rein in your horses ; the road is too narrow here , it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle , for the gods are soon recognised . moreover i feel the lust of battle burn more fiercely within me , while my hands and my feet under me are more eager for the fray . and ajax son of telamon came close up to her ; even so close behind him that he could not strip the goodly armour from his shoulders and the brave son of hippolochus as he was coming into battle , and show yourself the man you have been always proud to be . idomeneus answered , i know you want me badly , but i cannot stay with you any longer , for there is no race of royal children born to him in his house , and now idomeneus has slain him . with these words he struck the shield of ulysses . the spear went through the shield and passed on through his richly wrought cuirass , tearing the flesh from his side , but he is in no mind to mount , but will go against them even as i am , on the sad threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy 
