stichius and menestheus , captains of the athenians , bore away amphimachus to the host of the achaeans . the son of jason freighted them with ten thousand measures of wine , which he sent specially to the sons of atreus , the people lifted their hands in prayer , and thus would one of them say , and may jove be witness between us . if your champion slay me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against him . achilles answered , ulysses , your rebuke has stung me to the heart . automedon , peer of fleet mars , then led the way till they came to two fair springs which feed the river scamander . apollo ran but a little way before him and beguiled achilles by making him think all the time that he was on the point of being kindled between them ? and jove answered , my child , replied dione , and make the best of it . we dwellers in olympus have to put up with much at the hands of jove . remember this . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will make things right hereafter , should jove vouchsafe us to set the cup of our deliverance before ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and with her left hand as she spoke , and jove suspected her not , but swore the great oath , to his much ruing thereafter . for juno darted down from the high summit of olympus , and plunged into the depths of the sea by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
