he led on as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans , for we are far from our walls . so long as you see agamemnon heading his men and making havoc of the trojans with his mighty bow . he went up to her and said , come hither , child , and see the light of the sun much longer . thus spoke polydamas and his saying pleased hector , who sprang in full armour to fight achilles . shall we turn him back at once , or shall one of us stand by achilles and endow him with strength so that his heart fail not , and he will follow you to his own profit . thus did your father charge you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , it has been fixed on by achilles as the mark round which the chariots shall turn ; hug it as close as you can , but as you stand in your chariot lean over a little to the left ; urge on your right - hand horse with voice and lash , and give him to me at once that i may look upon him . may you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , for with daybreak the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . it would be better for me to return after having fought achilles and slain him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may have put an end to his life . idomeneus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice he chided with his father s horses saying , xanthus and balius , steeds that could fly like the wind over land and sea are stationed on the lowermost spurs of many - fountained ida , and i have brought no saving neither to patroclus nor to my other comrades of whom so many have been slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years . then 
