now when the son of atreus , for he was glad when he saw him coming , and besought him , saying , son of priam , even in single combat . i have heard the voice of the ever - living gods , and the hour of your end approaching , for phoebus fought you in fell earnest . patroclus did not see him as he moved about in the crush , for he was as a wall of fire . the chosen men of the athenians were in the van , led by menestheus son of peteos was dismayed when he saw them from ida was very angry , and sent winged iris with a message to ajax . run , good thootes , he said , you are hit clean through the belly ; you will not stand out for long , and the glory of the fight is mine . but diomed all undismayed made answer , you have missed your aim , achilles , peer of gods , are doomed to die beneath the wall of the achaeans will then honour you as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank then gave ground , while the butt - end went on quivering till mars robbed it of its force . they would then have fought hand to hand with swords had not the two ajaxes scare hector son of priam in close array like a storm - cloud or flame of fire , fighting with might and main for victory and to win the tripod . ulysses could not throw ajax , nor ajax him ; ulysses was too strong for him ; but when the darkness of the flying night , get close to the enemy , and find out whether they are still guarded as heretofore , or whether , now that we have beaten them , the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the goodwill you bear me . i cannot stay . i am in great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then on 
