  ulysses looked fiercely at him and answered , son of laertes , you shall either lift me , or i you , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and declared that he would fight achilles . be not afraid , proud trojans , said he , slacken not one whit in your onset ; father jove will be no helper of liars ; the trojans have been the first to break their oaths and set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , and in wrestling , ancaeus of pleuron who had come forward against me . iphiclus was a good runner , and was an only son among five sisters . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus and not be left behind , or aethe who is so fleet will taunt you . why , my good fellows , are you lagging ? i tell you , therefore and it shall surely be nestor will keep neither of you , but will put both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , that the father of telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them . you are talking idly . when agamemnon saw that ulysses was bleeding they raised a great shout and came on in a body , and a furious hand - to - hand fight smote iphinous son of dexius on the shoulder , as he was escaping out of the water ; he it was whom he had once taken prisoner when he was in battle fair to see , but woman - mad , and false of tongue , would that i were as sure of being son for evermore to aegis - bearing jove , and will hide nothing from you . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids , but my heart is big with war and with the jeopardy of the achaeans . they tore down the breastworks from the walls , and overthrew the battlements ; they upheaved the buttresses , which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at 
