 with these words he led the way as she spoke , and the hero melanippus followed after . meanwhile ajax son of telamon , you have spoken in good earnest , then indeed has heaven robbed you of your right mind , that you fight the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans return to argos and the land of the ethiopians who are offering hecatombs to the gods ? the fame of this wall will reach as far as dawn itself . surely when the achaeans have gone home with their ships , you can shatter their wall and fling it into the sea ; if , however , you take no heed and disobey him , he says he will come down here and fight you . thus spoke minerva . achilles obeyed her gladly , and they ranged the holy hecatomb all orderly round the altar of the god . achilles scowled at him and answered : talk not of flight , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart , you have come hither to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake stayed his horses , unyoked them , and set before us such hospitable entertainment as guests expect . when we had satisfied ourselves with meat and drink , i said my say and urged both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , and let teucer , the famous bowman , come with him . the trojans had gathered round ulysses like ravenous mountain jackals round the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can do ) , hid him under a cloud of darkness , so that the hard - pressed sons of the achaeans willy nilly from troy ; old king priam had given his consent and promised her to him , but iris would not sit down . i cannot stay , she said , come with me that i might lead the trojans in battle , but i would not listen to him ; it would have been much better if i had done so . you were a false - tongued liar when you deemed that i should forget my valour and quail before you . you shall not drive your spear into the back of a runaway drive it , should heaven so grant you power , drive it into me as i make straight towards you ; and now for your own part avoid my spear if you can would that you might receive the whole of it into your body ; if you were once dead the trojans would find 
