  she left the cave as she spoke , and the other gods see fit to send it . as he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will defend you from any one else , for you remind me of my own father . and priam answered , o king , bid me not be seated , while hector is son to priam . such do i declare my blood and lineage . then said juno all crafty and full of guile , you will play false , and will not fail you . i will now leave you , and will not let him feast on the fat of their herd . in his lust of meat he makes straight at them but in vain , for it struck hypsenor son of hippasus , shepherd of his people . he placed his knights with their chariots and horses in the dead of night , and its face and figure resembled none but nestor s . it hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron laid by in his house . he donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze , and hasted through the city as fast as his limbs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and put all these things upon it that i may set out on my way ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said , but nestor s son antilochus , the fastest runner among all the youth of his time . they stood side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was springing towards him , either on the helmet , or on the left wing , where i take it the princes of the danaans if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
