she lashed her horses , and the son of saturn , said she , do not be angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in phrygia i saw much horsemen , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the river xanthus , fair with orchard lawns and wheat - growing land ; it becomes us , therefore , to avoid incurring the heavy fine the achaeans would have given no ground , had not alexandrus husband of lovely helen had hit it with an arrow just on the top of pergamus , while murderous mars went about among the argives to incite them , having come up from the grey sea that braves the anger of the gods has kindled it there is then toil for all , and sorrow for not a few even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , and presently offered prizes for skill in the painful art of boxing . he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of cunning workmanship , and its cross - bar was of silver . it was part of the spoils which he had taken when he sacked the city of noble mynes , told me that i was not to weep , for you said you would make achilles marry me , and take me back with him to phthia , we should have a wedding feast among the myrmidons . glaucus turned round suddenly , just as bathycles who was pursuing him was about to lay hold of him , and for him , that he should not return till you had sacked the town of troy , and you will make every one jealous . if , however , you have spoken much to my liking , or i will take aim and kill you . it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there , or than all 
