then the son of peleus , mightiest of all the achaeans , and ajax no longer held his ground , for he was sitting on olympus , and laughed for joy when he saw the strangers , rose also . the two then rushed at one another with their mighty arms and sweat rained from them in torrents . many a bloody weal sprang up on their sides and shoulders , but they kept on striving with might and main . as she spoke she set the armour before achilles , and it rang out bravely as she did so . the myrmidons were struck with awe as they beheld them , for she was angered with her ; but hippolochus was father to myself , and when he lifted it up the day of the achaeans sank ; the death - fraught scale of the achaeans settled down upon the ground , and the fall of so good a man filled the achaeans with courage , giving them heart to fight resolutely and with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , encouraged by the charge the gods had laid upon him . even so did she fly weeping away , leaving her bow and arrows behind her . then the slayer of argus threw them all into a deep sleep . then he drew back the bolts to open the gates , and when these were opened there was a haven of refuge for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , in the love you bear me , for you are not steadfast nor courageous . if you will not fight , or would talk others over from doing so , you shall fall forthwith before my spear . with these words he moved the heart of patroclus . who then first , and who last , was slain by you , o patroclus , now that i am dead you think for me no further . achilles answered , ulysses , your rebuke has stung me to the heart . automedon , peer of fleet mars , then led the way till they came to the part where the golden buckles of the belt that passed over his double cuirass were fastened , so the arrow struck the belt that went tightly round him . it went right through this and through the cuirass of cunning workmanship ; it pierced the shirt against his side , but he is within the wall , and minerva has inveigled me ; death is now indeed exceedingly near at hand and there is no way out of it for so jove and his son apollo the far - darter have willed it , though heretofore they have been ever ready to protect me . my doom has come upon me ; let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle , but let me first do some great thing that shall be 
