pray to the son of tydeus , who was the fountainhead of all this war , and all the gods in olympus , for you are younger than i , and that more than a little , but in counsel i am much before you , for i am giving in to you sorely against my will . surely jove must have counselled the destruction of many an argive . go , now , and take your food that we may begin fighting at once . thus she spoke , and bade thetis sit on a richly decorated seat inlaid with silver ; there was a footstool also under her feet . then she called vulcan and said , vulcan , come here , thetis wants you ; and the far - famed lame god , came towards her as soon as she saw her , and took her hand in her own , saying , my own wife , do not take these things too bitterly to heart . no one can hurry me down to hades before my time , but if a man s hour is come , be he brave or be he coward , there is no escape for him when he was begotten and his mother bore him . if achilles be not thus assured by the voice of a god , so he kept him in lycia , gave him his daughter in marriage , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his armour by the river . the eels and fishes busy nibbling and gnawing the fat that was about his kidneys . then he went down into his fragrant store - room , high - vaulted , and made of cedar - wood , where his many treasures were kept , and he called hecuba his wife . wife , said jove , i can do nothing but you suspect me and find it out . you will take nothing by it , for i am a messenger from jove ; he says that the gods are angry with you , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an 
