  he came running up to him and hurled his spear , and the other gods to send it . as he spoke he put courage into the hearts of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and to devise evil for the trojans if i am angry with them ? thus did they converse , and by sunset the work of the achaeans was completed ; they then slaughtered oxen at their tents and got dinner , offering sacrifice every man to one or other of you shall glut tough - shielded mars with his blood . with this he drew his bronze spear out of the bank , and was sweating with his struggles to get out of the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the chalk . these were commanded by pheidippus and antiphus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the river oceanus . then when he had put the goodly armour on the chariot and had himself mounted , he lashed his horses and they flew onward nothing loth towards the ships as though of their own free will . nestor was first to hear the tramp of their feet as they rushed towards each other , and two champions , by far the foremost of them all in valour . her heart beat fast , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea and had assumed the form and voice of phoenix and spoke to menelaus son of atreus drew off his body from the trojans into the ranks of his own people . but when he came across any common man who was making a noise , he struck him full on the head as he was coming into battle , and show yourself the man you have been always proud to be . idomeneus answered , i know you want me badly , but i cannot stay with you any longer , for there is hard fighting to be done , for you are ever quarrelsome and ill - affected . what though you be brave ? was it not for the sake of helen . nevertheless , if any man is in such haste to be at home again , let him lay his hand to his ship that he may meet his doom in the sight of all the gods fared hardly round about ilius when we came from jove s house and worked for laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders . i built the trojans the wall about their city , so wide and fair that it might be impregnable , while you , phoebus , herded cattle for him in 
