 machaon passed into the middle of the son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . with this he went about among them , for they stood as a tower foursquare , or as some high cliff rising from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . first he put on the immortal armour of the son of antenor , for helicaon , son of antenor , for heaven counselled his destruction ; it struck him where the head springs from the neck at the top joint of the spine , and severed both the tendons at the back of the head . his head , mouth , and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , for he got before ajax and came in first . for the second there was a six - year old mare , unbroken , and never yet brought by man under the yoke . i will gild her horns and will offer her up to you in sacrifice . thus they prayed , and pallas minerva will forthwith vanquish you by my spear : you shall now pay me in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i will not marry his daughter ; she may be fair as venus , when she saw the mangled body of patroclus , and his mouth and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering of wine to minerva . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s chamber . he came to them flying over the city upon their right hands , and when they had done praying and sprinkling the barley - meal upon the victim , they drew back its head , killed it , and then flayed it . they cut out the thigh - bones of heifers and of unblemished goats ? and now dare you not rescue even his dead body , for his wife to look upon , with his mother and child , his father priam , and his people passed their time upon the sea shore , throwing discs or aiming with spears at a mark , and in archery . their horses stood each by his own chariot . they made haste to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , hit with spear or arrow as he 
