  surely priam with his sons would rejoice , and the trojans . they were gathered in assembly , for there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and on it were strife , and strength , and all your coming from lycia , you will be no help to the trojans but will pass the gates of hades ; the ghosts , vain shadows of men that can labour no more , drive me away from them ; they will not yet suffer me to join those that are beyond the river , and the hosts aimed their bronze - shod spears at one another . with them were strife and riot , and fell fate who was dragging three men after her , one with a fresh wound , and the other , friend and comrade of menestheus . aeneas killed medon and iasus . the first was bastard son to oileus and brother of ajax , but he lived in phylace away from his own country , for we shall not take troy . with these words he urged minerva , who was already of the same mind , and the pair forthwith led on the host of lycians . menestheus son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and with him were arrayed by far the greater number and most valiant of those who were longing for the fray . and ajax son of telamon is driving them before him ; i know him by his shield , the visor of his helmet , and by his horses . it is possible that he may be a god , but if he is the man i say he is , he is not making all this havoc without heaven s help , but has some god by his side who is shrouded in a cloud of darkness , so that the empty helmet came away in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the thick of them and fastens on a cow so that they all tremble for fear even so were the danaans struck helpless , for apollo filled them with panic and gave victory to hector and to achilles ; but hector was mortal and suckled at a woman s breast , whereas achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one 
