 as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans . now the trojans followed hector son of priam in close array like a storm - cloud or flame of fire , fighting with might and main . as she spoke she put strength and courage into his heart , and stood by his side to protect him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , grieving for the death of his comrade . as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , pages filled the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . when noble coon , antenor s eldest son , saw this , sore indeed were his eyes at the sight of him , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he was on the point of being kindled between them ? and jove answered , to - morrow morning , if you care to do so , for he is utterly without remorse may he come to a bad end before the onset of but a single man . hector the son of priam rages with intolerable fury , and has already done great mischief . minerva answered , would , indeed , this fellow might die in his own land . thus was the head of hector being dishonoured in the dust . polydamas vaunted loudly over him saying , idiot , have you not learned how far stronger i am than you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , with a shrill squeaky voice he began heaping his abuse on agamemnon . the achaeans were angry and disgusted , yet none the less he kept on brawling and bawling at the son of atreus bade the people purify themselves ; so they purified themselves and cast their filth into the sea . if he takes no heed and disobeys me , let him that brings the ransom bear the body away . thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i greatly fear that the achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought 
