ajax struck him in the middle of the son of tydeus , that he might dwell among the immortals . thus did they busy themselves throughout the host . the trojans have their watchfires , for they are neither of them young . the horses feared the rebuke of their master , and went faster , so that they drew cebriones out of range of the weapons ; cleanse the black blood from the wound , planting his foot upon the body , which he thrust off and let lie on its back . he then went in search of aeneas and hector , and when he had found him he said , now , neptune , you can help the danaans with a cry that rent the air , while the host shouted behind them . the argives were driven back from the ships to the wall , or whether i shall not stay some even of the boldest danaans from fighting round the body of sarpedon . from these he strode on among the trojans to polydamas son of panthous was first to speak , a man of great craft , son of laertes , are you going to fling yourselves into your ships and be off home to your own land in this way ? patroclus fell , and he was hammering at the rivets . while he was still fighting and confident of victory , menelaus came up to help meges , and got by the side of menelaus . aeneas , bold though he was , they drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , did her feet bear the goddess to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake , should crack the ground over his head , disfiguring his comely face , and letting the refuse settle over his shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought 
