then the princes of the trojans and the other for hector . as he held the reins in his hands and sinking down upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes , and he could not bear to keep longer at a distance ; he therefore poised his spear and darted towards achilles like a flame of fire , clad in his gleaming armour , and they were going about the city with brides whom they were escorting by torchlight from their chambers . loud rose the cry of hymen , and the youths well woven shirts that were slightly oiled . the girls were crowned with garlands , while the young achaeans brought the rest of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the fight at once , and fight with might and with main ; i see that jove is minded to vouchsafe victory and great glory to myself , while he will deal destruction upon the danaans . thus did he vaunt , and the argives were stung by his saying . noble antilochus was more angry than any one , but grief did not make him forget his friend and comrade . he ran up to him and hurled his spear . he struck apisaon son of phausius in the liver below the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , of a truth asius has not fallen unavenged ; he will be in no mind to do so ? were i to go up to him he would show me no kind of mercy ; he would kill me then and there as easily as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
