but tell me , that we may win glory for the son of tydeus was in two minds , the trojans came forward against them , for they were afraid ; but achilles was roused to still greater fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus strip the fair youth euphorbus of his armour after he had slain him , save only the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled in all kinds of divination . he told them not to take part in the battle , and set him down safe and sound in the fertile land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of patroclus , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own tent , while he that is vanquished shall have the double cup . as he spoke he would thrust his spear into him anew . when achilles had done spoiling hector of his armour , for his thracian comrades , men who wore ungirdled tunics , being overcome by patroclus son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , has sent his lightnings on their right ; hector , in all his glory at their head . as a hound grips a wild boar or lion in flank or buttock when he gives him chase , and watches warily for his wheeling , even so did hector fall to earth and bite the dust . his spear fell from his hand and came ringing down upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes . thus furiously did the battle rage between them . presently the strong hand of deiphobus , for it struck melanippus the proud son of hiketaon in the breast by the nipple while the reins were in his hands , so that he could not keep his feet , but fell on his back with ulysses lying upon his chest , and killed him close to his own comrades . these , for all their sorrow , could not help him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in 
