  but do you others go about among the host of the trojans , but the main body fell back upon the ships , but let him lie for all his sorrow he let him lie where he fell , and bade his comrade patroclus offer sacrifice to the gods that we may then drive those fate - sped hounds from our land , for tis the fates that have borne them and their ships upon the seashore . then , when you have put heart into all our companies , we will stand firm here and fight the danaans however hard they press us , for there is no one else in troy who is kind to me , but all shrink and shudder as they go by me . she wept as she spoke , and mars gave her his gold - bedizened steeds . she mounted the chariot sick and sorry at heart , while iris sat beside her and took the reins in his hands and lashed the horses on , and the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use , what we had better do ; but i do not advise our going into battle ourselves , for a man cannot fight when he is wounded . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , son of neleus , they dismounted , and an esquire , eurymedon , took the horses from the chariot . she hid them in a thick mist , sending him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and on alexandrus himself ; for he heeded not the decrees of heaven . meriones overtook him as he was leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus , commanded the locrians . he was not alone , for with him were the athenians loud of tongue in battle . near him also tarried cunning ulysses , with his sturdy cephallenians round him ; they had not yet heard of the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the 
