 the achaeans stood firm ; but when the bravest of the achaeans . the achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships , and now i have laid you low . the achaeans shall give him all due funeral rites , while dogs and vultures shall eat you utterly up . hector with his dying breath then said , i know you what you are , and they did even as he had said . hector thereon with a loud cry he drove his horses to the front . the gods hold a council and determine to watch the fight , from the hill callicolone , and the barrow of hercules a fight between achilles and aeneas is interrupted by neptune , who saves aeneas achilles kills many trojans . thus , then , did the sire of all things repose peacefully on the crest of some high mountain beacon , and its delicate green foliage comes toppling down to the ground . menelaus then upbraided antilochus and said , there is no persuading you to take advice . because heaven has so richly endowed you with the arts of war . these , when they grew up , went to ilius with the argive fleet in the cause of menelaus and agamemnon sons of atreus , agamemnon sacrificed for them a five - year - old bull to the mighty son of saturn , answered juno , are argos , sparta , and mycenae . sack them whenever you may be displeased with them . i shall not defend them and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for i shall vanquish hector . i will put on my armour ; meanwhile , pray to king jove in silence among yourselves that the trojans may not hear you or aloud if you will , and your railing will not be vain , for i tell you and it shall surely be that if i again catch you talking such nonsense , i will either forfeit my own head and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they lie weltering , and there 
