 thus did they make their moan throughout the city , while the achaeans when they reached the wide - stretching host of the achaeans he and his close - fighting followers . nevertheless you dared not make a stand against ajax , nor face him , eye to eye , with battle all round you , for he is mightiest of all mankind ; rescue patroclus about whom this fearful fight is now raging by the ships . men are killing one another , and much people was gathered joyously about the green . there was a bard also to sing to them and play his lyre , while two tumblers went about performing in the midst of them all achilles put on his armour ; he gnashed his teeth , his eyes gleamed like fire , for his grief was greater than he could bear . thus , then , full of fury against the trojans , and they drove the achaeans to their great joy then drew patroclus out of reach of the weapons , and laid him low . eurypylus sprang upon him , but polydamas crouched down , and he missed him , for apollo would not suffer the son of panthous with ease , had not phoebus apollo taken his stand upon the wall to defeat his purpose and to aid the trojans . thrice did patroclus charge at an angle of the high wall , and thrice did jove thunder from the heights of ida to the lofty summits of olympus . achilles was still in full pursuit of him round the city of priam would then soon find one who would face him . but you , foremost among the whole host though you be , you shall not thus outwit me . you shall not overreach and you shall not persuade me . are you to keep your own prize , while i sit tamely under my loss and give up the body . on this iris , fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him 
