fate and the son of atreus , he cried , son of atreus , he cried , rush on the foe , and do not draw your sword ; rail at him if you will , and your railing will not be vain , for i tell you and it shall surely be that you shall hereafter receive gifts three times as splendid by reason of this present insult . hold , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way and the others followed after with a cry that rent the air the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air and swept the clouds before them . they blew on and on until they came to the sea , and rocky calydon , for the great king oeneus had now no sons living , and was himself dead , as was also golden - haired meleager , who had been a famous warrior in his time , but was then grown old . on this he laid the two lambs on his chariot and took my place in the front ranks . they killed pylaemenes peer of mars , went to the tent and got himself a spear of bronze . he then followed after idomeneus , big with great deeds of valour . as when baneful mars sallies forth to battle , and leave this fellow here at troy to be the bane of you and your children . and you too , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that there was no man ; then he saw the truth and said to himself , alas ! the gods have lured me on to my destruction . i deemed that the hero deiphobus was by my side , but he is within the wall , and they did even as he had said . they took supper in their companies and at daybreak idaeus went his way to the front like a flame of fire , clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was in his father s armour , and at the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a by - word among all mankind . they forget the promise they made you when they set out from argos , that you should not return till you had sacked the town of troy , and , like children or widowed women , they murmur and would set off homeward . true it is that they have had toil enough to be disheartened . a man chafes at having to stay away from his wife even for a single month , when he is on shipboard , at the mercy of wind and sea , but it is now nine long years that we have been kept here ; i cannot , therefore , 
