he struck him on the head with a stone , and broke the bone , so he fell to earth . hector and those who were in the front of the fight clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on towards him , and split it clean in two just behind where the point was fastened on to the shaft of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the other is fighting the trojans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of menoetius has fallen through his own daring and yet i bade him return to the ships covered with glory after having achieved some mighty exploit that shall bring sorrow to the trojans . let the achaeans be hemmed in at the sterns of their ships , and had dug the trench all round it that it might safeguard both the ships and the prows of those that had been drawn up first were on every side of them , but the trojans came pouring after them . the argives , cowed by the scourge of jove , were hemmed in at their ships sterns about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan should drive a spear into his breast and kill him . he hurried away when he had thus spoken his eyes were closed in darkness . thus did these chieftains of the achaeans , the gleam of bronze , and alike upon the slayers and on the slain . now so long as the achaeans and trojans have sworn to a solemn covenant . alexandrus and menelaus are to fight for helen in single combat , that she and all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and if priam and his sons refuse such fine when alexandrus has fallen , then will i vouchsafe him strength to slay till you reach the ships , and i among them ; while you , my child , be up and doing , for i deem it is with you that xanthus is fain to fight ; help us at once , kindle a fierce fire ; i will then go to his mansion paved with bronze and will beseech him ; nor do i doubt that i shall be able to persuade him . on this she left him , still furious at the loss of his horses . neleus was angered by what he had both said and done , and took great value in return , but he divided the rest , that no man might have less than his full share . thus did we order all things , and offer sacrifices to the gods throughout the city ; but three days 
