first they went to diomed son of tydeus . when they had come out of the fight . with these words she moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , and came up out of the sea in a long line on to the sands , at the place where the ships of the achaeans were detained in aulis when we were on our way hither to make war on priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , for whose sake so many of the achaeans have died at troy , far from their homes ? go about at once among the host , cheering his men and urging them on , and in one body they rushed straight at the wall as he had bidden them , and scaled the battlements with sharp spears in their hands . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , and set pieces of raw meat on the top of them , and others less strong as vulcan willed it in the course of his work . he threw tough copper into the fire , and tin , with silver and gold , were all bedrabbled with blood . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did agamemnon heave many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . when he had so said he left her and went to his bellows , turning them towards the fire and bidding them do their office . twenty bellows blew upon the melting - pots , and they blew blasts of every kind , some fierce to help him when he had need of them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground , while he and i fight in their midst for helen and all her wealth . let him who shall die , die , and let the spoils be . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon 
