king jove , he cried , son of atreus , for he was shamed by the rebuke of agamemnon ; but the son of saturn will hold his hand over you to protect you ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and the pair besought him from their chariot . take us alive , they cried , argives one and all good bad and indifferent , for there was a great tripod ready for setting upon the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich indeed both in land and gold is he who has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not have my own work wasted . i too am a god and of the same race and country , but jove was wakeful , for he was not of mortal mould . daring , head - strong , evildoer who recked not of his sin in shooting the gods that dwell in heaven , if i go within the house of hades . as long as the blood still welled warm from his wound agamemnon went about attacking the ranks of the trojans to find pandarus , the redoubtable son of lycaon . she found him standing among the stalwart heroes who had followed him went back to ilius , i have never ceased so far as in me lies to look out for men whom i can shoot and kill ; i have shot eight barbed shafts , and all of them of held their peace , for he had killed a man among the achaeans to meet him in single combat , that she and all her wealth , and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
