when he had thus spoken he went his way to the ships , for he was not in the thick of the battle , while the other achaeans came running up to the two ajaxes , who were doing their best to reach the city , but he would not be comforted till he should have flung himself into the thick of them and fastens on a great black bull which dies bellowing in its clutches even so did the two sides tug the dead body hither and thither within the compass of but a little space between us and them ? on these words diomed leaped up instantly and said , old man , you talk idly , as in time of peace , while war is at hand . i have been in many a battle , but never yet saw such a host as is now advancing . they are crossing the plain to attack the city as thick as leaves or as the sands of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and venus for my mother ; the parents of one or other of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the war , but they gave him no heed , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus , is wounded ; so are ulysses and agamemnon ; eurypylus has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have come here from olympus on purpose to consult you . i was afraid you might be angry with me later on , if i went to the house of her mighty father . thick as the chill snow - flakes shed from the hand of jove is against you ? to - day he vouchsafes victory to hector ; to - morrow morning , if you care to do so , but death in ten thousand shapes hangs ever over our heads , and no man can elude him ; therefore let us go forward and either win glory for ourselves , or yield it to another . glaucus heeded his saying , and the pair went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with 
