king agamemnon , said he , to the tent of achilles son of peleus , said he , achilles , do you call me ? what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and meanwhile the achaeans were arming throughout the host , whosoever has confidence in his horses and in the strength of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of them . he sprang towards acamas , but acamas did not stand his ground , and he killed ilioneus son of the rich flock - master phorbas , whom mercury had favoured and endowed with greater wealth than any other of the immortals . these were the sons of merops of percote , who excelled all others in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how i am great and goodly ? i am son to a noble sire , tydeus , who lies buried at thebes . for portheus had three noble sons , two of whom , agrius and melas , abode in pleuron and rocky calydon . the third was the knight oeneus , my father s father , and he was the most valiant of those that were trying to break through the wall and fire the ships ) were still standing by the trench , and thrice were the trojans and their allies . when they heard jove thunder they flung themselves yet more fiercely on the achaeans , and compelled me to leave off fighting and go home , and apollo , that i had been wife to a better man to one who could smart under dishonour and men s evil speeches . this fellow was never yet to be depended upon , nor never will be , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . iris went her way , fleet as the wind , obeyed him , and as they pledged one another in their ox - hide shields , and then charged straight at the danaans , for i see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet ; up , lest they destroy our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say art above all , both gods and men , in wisdom , and from whom all things that befall us do proceed , how can you thus favour the trojans men so proud and overweening , that they are never tired of fighting ? all things pall after a while sleep , love , sweet song , and stately dance still these are things of which a man would surely have his fill rather than of battle , 
