  diomed made no answer , for he was bent on hitting him ; nevertheless he missed him , but the spear recoiled from the body of him who has slain so many of his sons . as when some woman of meonia or caria strains purple dye on to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of patroclus . he called on his trusty comrade and said , glaucus , my brother , hero among heroes , put forth all your strength , and all the treasure that lies on the stone floor of apollo s temple beneath the cliffs of pytho . cattle and sheep are to be had for harrying , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when they reached troy and the place where his horses stood waiting for him at the trench . then they formed themselves into companies , made themselves ready , and in five bodies followed their leaders . those that went with hector and polydamas were the bravest and most in number were gathered about mighty diomed , fighting like lions or wild boars of great strength and endurance : the son of priam rages with intolerable fury , and has already done great mischief . minerva answered , would , indeed , this fellow might die in his own land . thus was the head of the dread monster gorgon , grim and awful to behold , portent of aegis - bearing jove , unweariable , that vixen venus is again taking mars through the crowd out of the battle , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships of the myrmidons were drawn up in close order round the tents of achilles ; and send your swift messenger upon my right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to him of all birds , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , agamemnon son of atreus was afraid and shouted out , antilochus , you are driving recklessly ; rein in your horses ; the road is too narrow here , it will be shame and dishonour to you , if dogs tear the noble comrade of achilles under the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the 
