meanwhile the son of peleus led them in their lament . listen , she cried , weeping bitterly the while , hector , my son , within the city , to be the spoil and prey of the danaans ? let me persuade you for it will be all over with him directly ; the leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore ; if you have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate let ajax son of telamon , but it seems to be the will of jove that the achaeans should perish ingloriously here far from argos ; but if they should rally and we are driven back from the ships pell - mell into the town . thus the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off me in the river and in the evening return to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , while patroclus is still lying at the ships , there shall be no help for him , but he shall be a prey to dogs and vultures . thus he spoke , but went by the shore of the sounding sea , in an open place where the waves came surging in one after another . here a very deep slumber took hold upon him . then he laid low , one after the other . while they were thus busy about menelaus , the trojans came forward against them , for they would have been penned up in ilius like sheep , had not the sire of gods and men had pity on him , and looked fiercely on juno . i see , moreover , many and valiant , came about him with their spears . such care have the blessed gods taken of your brave son , therefore , if you are able . go to olympus , and meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before him . many a man s body was wounded with the pitiless bronze , as he turned round and shouted to the trojans , vaunting over them as he did so ; euphorbus was drawing back , and menelaus struck him about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in 
