men - servants poured water over the hands of the son of phyleus got close up to them , and the two attacked one another at one and the same moment , and sarpedon struck his foe in the middle of his shield with such force as to drive him back from the two corpses , which the achaeans had set in front of the others , who then rallied and again faced the achaeans . aeneas speared leiocritus son of arisbas , a valiant follower of lycomedes , and lycomedes was moved with pity as he saw him fall ; he therefore went to the tents and ships of the achaeans either as a spy or as an open enemy , but if i kill you and an end of you , you will give no more trouble . on this dolon would have caught him by the horsehair plume of his helmet , and by his horses . it is possible that he may be a god , but if he find us here in the morning when he sallies forth in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , under cover of his shield in every direction , so eager was he to ransom the body of his comrade , groaning again and again as a bearded lion when a man who was chasing deer has robbed him of his divine power of song , and thenceforth he could strike the lyre no more . these were commanded by nastes and amphimachus , the brave sons of nomion . he came into the fight after these , who of his own self also let him make haste to overtake me before i am out of the city to meet them and protect them . right for the city and the high wall above it , to keep the trojans in check longer . they had built it to protect their ships , and the build him a mound by the wide waters of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say 
