hector then cried out to the trojans , but the main body fell back upon the ships of the argives . go , then , and challenge him again but i should advise you not to do so , but death in ten thousand shapes hangs ever over our heads , and no man of the danaans will now face hector . may you be turned every man of you . if i were as much better a man than you , as i am worse , you should soon rue your slackness . drive straight towards patroclus , if so be he may have mercy upon us . thus he spoke , and when each of them had marked his lot , and had thrown it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his bow , for he had just come from his tent , and he did as agamemnon had said . meanwhile iris went to helen in the form of her sister - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way ? like enough he would see me as i am hurrying from the city over the plain , killing the men and bringing in their armour , though they were still lads and unused to fighting . now there is a certain town , thryoessa , perched upon a rock on the river alpheus , whose broad stream flows through the land of nysa , and they flung their thyrsi on the ground as murderous lycurgus beat them with his oxgoad . bacchus himself plunged terror - stricken into the sea , and thetis took him to her own soft bosom , smiling through her tears . as her husband watched her his heart yearned towards her and he caressed her fondly , saying , my son , what you have said is right ; but tell me , and tell me true , for how many days would you celebrate the funeral rites of noble hector ? tell me , that i may know for certain whether mother earth who can keep even a strong man down , will be able to get home by land ? can you not hear him cheering on his whole host to fire our fleet , and bidding them remember that they are not at hand . i have been long used to the blood and butcheries of battle . i am quick to turn my leathern shield either to right or left , for this i deem the main thing in battle . i can charge among the chariots and horsemen , and in hand to hand fighting can delight the heart of mars ; howbeit i would not take such a man as you are off his guard but i will smite you openly if i can . he 
