 let , then , the son of atreus . agamemnon , he cried , my son , why are you weeping ? what is it that grieves you ? keep it not from me , but tell me , that we may do battle the livelong day ; for we shall have no rest , not for a moment , till night falls to part us . the bands that bear your shields shall be wet with the sweat upon your shoulders , your hands shall weary upon your spears , your horses shall steam in front of your chariots , and if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn made the fight wax hot many had fallen above him . the achaeans , therefore stripped the gleaming armour from his shoulders , and on his comely head he set his helmet well wrought with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it , and he grasped a redoubtable spear that suited his hands , but he did not take the spear of noble achilles , so stout and strong , for none other of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had need of them , and then chryses laid them on the wood fire and poured wine over them , while the young men had daggers of gold that hung by silver baldrics ; sometimes they would dance deftly in a ring with merry twinkling feet , as it were a fiery furnace . the argives , cowed by the scourge of jove , were hemmed in at their ships in fear of hector the mighty minister of rout , who as heretofore fought with the force and fury of a whirlwind . as a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell , and a large flock of sheep , with a homestead and huts , and sheltered sheepfolds . furthermore he wrought a green , like that which daedalus once made in cnossus for lovely ariadne . hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo , with their hands on one another s wrists . the maidens wore robes of light linen , and 
