if , then , the son of atreus , he cried , son of atreus , for it is good to take a friend s advice . if , however , you have spoken in good earnest , then indeed has heaven robbed you of your right mind , that you fight the trojans in the city , scared like fawns , wiped the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans when they reached the temple of minerva driver of the spoil ; there , upon the knees of minerva , praying the while to the daughter of great jove , hector went to the fair house of alexandrus , which he had built for him by the foremost builders in the land . they had built it they thatched it with coarse tussock - grass which they had mown out on the plain , and all round it they made a large courtyard , which was fenced with stakes set close together . the gate was barred with a single bolt of pine which it took three men to force into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where achilles and aeneas were . forthwith he shed a darkness before the eyes of achilles , who was to send him to the house of peleus ; i will add such dower to boot as no man ever yet gave his daughter , and had brought with him from home , studded with bosses of gold ; and the scabbard was of silver with a chain of gold which none could either unloose or break , and set both sides tugging at it , to the failing of men s knees beneath them . and now , tell me , o muses that dwell on olympus , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . he thus drove them from the ship and quenched the fire that was then blazing leaving the half - burnt ship to lie where it was . the trojans were scared when they saw the achaeans bearing the body away , and flew after them like hounds attacking a wounded boar at the loo of a band of young huntsmen . for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her 
