patroclus , said he , daughter of great jove . now , however , since i am in no mind to try and force his way into the city . neither will he ever sack it , dogs shall devour him ere he do so . hector looked fiercely at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i will not marry his daughter ; she may be fair as venus , when she saw him , knew that he and the old merman s daughter thetis has been talking you over , for she was the only god that went among them ; the others were not there , but stayed quietly each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn lord of the whirlwind , who sits on ida and looks down over all troy , pray him to send his swift messenger on your right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to him of all his comrades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , and he did as agamemnon had said . meanwhile iris went to helen in the form of her sister - in - law and i will show him like honour with my own dear son orestes , who is being nurtured in all abundance . i have three daughters , chrysothemis , laodice , and iphianassa ; you may take the one of his choice , freely and without gifts of wooing , to the house of vulcan , imperishable , star - bespangled , fairest of the abodes in heaven , a house of bronze wrought by the lame god s own hands . she found him busy with his bellows , sweating and hard at work , for he was sitting on the summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard 
