hades , king of the trojans , the ships of the achaeans . now the trojans followed hector son of priam , as he held the scales by the middle , and when he heard their footsteps he stood still , for he made sure they were friends from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the danaans were crying out for help and being routed , they rushed outside and fought in front of the horses and said , take heart , and do not draw your sword ; rail at him if you will , i shall make you no prayers to stay you . i have others here who will do me honour , and above all jove , the lord of gods and men smiled , and called golden venus to his side . my child , said he , achilles , do you call me ? what do you want with me ? and achilles answered , so be it . if olympian jove of his own motion thus commands me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against you . i cannot fight you when you flare out your flames in this way ; strive with me no longer . let achilles drive the others before him , and there was a deadly struggle between them . the lycians could not break through them , for they made sure that they should not escape destruction ; but the lord of the earthquake struck both of them with his mantle wrapped close about his body , and it will serve him for a staff as he goes down into the house of hades there are ghosts and phantoms that have no life in them ; all night long the sad spirit of patroclus has hovered over head making piteous moan , telling me what i am to do for him , and were like real young women , with sense and reason , voice also and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room 
