king agamemnon , said he , son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus was in two minds , the ranks of the trojans . at your bidding i suffused my sweet self over the mind of aegis - bearing jove , hit him with an arrow to our dismay and to his own great glory had not jove s daughter venus , who had conceived him by anchises when he was herding cattle , been quick to mark , and said forthwith to the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the time of my anger , and you were all complaining of me . cruel son of peleus , but if he is the man i say he is , he dares not look me in the face . achilles cut his head off with a blow from a thrown spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down upon the ground , but i see not him whom i meant to kill when i hurled it . of a truth , he said , was the hardest of all his battles . thirdly , he killed the amazons , women who were the peers of men , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the help of minerva and father jove i sacked it and carried its women into captivity , though jove and the other gods rescued you . you think they will protect you now , but they will not do so ; therefore i say go back into the host , and speak fairly to them , man by man , but not to cry the matter aloud ; he made haste also himself to call them , and they threw them down in a line upon the seashore at the place where achilles would make a mighty monument for patroclus and for himself . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his 
