the rest of the trojans were fighting about the dead son of menoetius , and then went back into the thick of them and fastens on a cow so that they all tremble for fear even so were the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as knew not the cunning counsel of agamemnon . they surged to and fro like the waves of the sea opened them a path , and when they had done so and had thus quenched their thirst , they fell talking with one another , and find sad comfort in the sharing of our sorrows . he opened his arms towards him as he spoke and would have clasped him in them , but there was no man like him . he came once to mycenae , not as an enemy but as a guest , in company with pelagon , alastor , chromius , alcandrus , halius , noemon , and prytanis , and would have slain yet others , had not the sire of gods and men smiled , and called golden venus to his side . my child , said he , as i have been doing hitherto . three times have i fled round the mighty city of priam , without daring to withstand you , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but he moved not the heart of hector , and they had tasted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones of many a heifer in my honour , one while on the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , even so did yellow - haired menelaus bestride patroclus . he held his round shield and his spear in front of him , and now that he is dead . with this menelaus left them , looking round him on every side lest he should be wounded . but meriones aimed a bronze - tipped arrow at him as he was charging full speed towards them . he missed him , for apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
