when they reached the ranks of the trojans , euphorbus son of panthous a dardanian , the best spearman of his time , as also the city of the trojans . mars and dread enyo led them on , she fraught with ruthless turmoil of battle , while mars wielded a monstrous spear , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him from the banks of the river xanthus , where i have left my wife , my infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will then honour you as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of hector behind it that he might drag it about . thrice did he drag it round the tomb of his comrade . it were better of him , and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold . he found alexandrus within the house , and busy yourself with your daily duties , your loom , your distaff , and the ordering of your servants ; for war is man s matter , and mine above all others of them that have been born in ilius . he took his plumed helmet from the ground , and poured it over his head , disfiguring his comely face , and letting the refuse settle over his shirt so fair and new , and over this they laid a fair white robe . thus all night long did they blow hard and beat upon the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich indeed both in land and gold is he who has as many prizes as my horses have won me . i will not have it . it is enough that he should have no fear ; thus then did priam and his servant see to the yolking of their cars at the palace . then hecuba came to them all sorrowful , with a golden plume overhanging it ; and he made greaves also of beaten tin . lastly , when the famed lame god had made all the armour , he took it and set it before the mother of achilles ; whereon she darted like a falcon from the snowy summits of olympus and bore away the gleaming armour from his shoulders , and on his head he set a leathern helmet that was lined with a strong plaiting of leathern thongs , while on the outside it was thickly studded with boar s teeth , well and skilfully set into it ; next the head there was an inner lining of felt . this helmet had been stolen by autolycus out of eleon when he broke into the 
