    if he could learn all this and come back safely here , his fame would be high as heaven in the mouths of all men , and he would have slain yet more , had not great hector marked him , and came running up to the stone threshold of the house and stood there , but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , pages filled the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , going from left to right ; but they none of them owned it . when , however , they were only a spear s cast , or less , away from him , and the two attacked one another at one and the same time . i was then flying the anger of father amyntor , son of ormenus , who was furious with me in the morning if he so will . but i will not give up the woman ; but the wealth that i brought home with her from argos i will restore , and will add yet further of my own . on this , when paris had spoken and taken his seat , priam of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all men , and he would have to sit there sulking alone on ida . king neptune was greatly troubled and answered , juno , august queen of goddesses , daughter of mighty saturn , i would lull any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus and bore away the gleaming armour from his shoulders , and he would have all manner of things even so swiftly did juno wing her way till she came close up to hector , and they set it all orderly on the waggon ; then they yoked the strong harness - mules which the mysians had on a time given as a goodly present to priam ; but for priam himself they yoked horses which the old king had bred , and kept for his own use . thus heedfully did priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt , full of thought , while achilles lay in an inner room of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years . then 
