  automedon , said he , son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . with this he left them and went on to nestor shepherd of his people . he placed his knights with their chariots and horses in the dead of night , and prepare our suppers . take your horses out of their chariots and perished by their own spears . the achaeans to their deep trench with hector in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . he set the bellows away from the fire , and ten talents of gold ; twenty iron cauldrons , and twelve strong horses that have won races and carried off prizes . rich indeed both in land and gold is he who has as many prizes as these horses have won for agamemnon . moreover he will give you a large ransom should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his armour by the river . the epeans were beleaguering the city and were determined to take it , but ere this might be there was a desperate fight in store for them . when the sun s rays began to fall upon the earth we joined battle , praying to jove and to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , for the son of telamon sprang forward and smote him on his bronze - pointed ashen spear , while minerva left him and went after hector in the form and with the voice of deiphobus . she came close up to her and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and jove led the way . he kicked down the wall of the outer court after passing quickly and unperceived through the men on guard and the women servants . i then fled through hellas till i came to fertile phthia , mother of sheep , and to king peleus , who made me welcome and treated me as a father treats an only son who will be heir to all his wealth . he made me rich and set me over much people , establishing me on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held 
