jove looked angrily at him and said , take me to the ships . as he spoke he called loudly on the trojans , who miss me greatly when i am not among them ; but patroclus stood where he was and breathed his last in the arms of his nurse , on a soft couch , knowing neither want nor care , whereas now that he has lost his father his lot will be full of hardship he , whom the trojans name astyanax , because you , o hector , sorrow unutterable to your parents , and my own grief is greatest of all , for it was with them that he was most wont to wrangle ; now , however , let it be as he will , but it shall go hard with him . i shall not defend them and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for i am not one to keep my enemy at arm s length , achaeans , but go for them and fight them man for man . however valiant i may be , i should soon vanquish you , and you would yield your life to hades of the noble steeds . socus had turned in flight , and thrust him from his chariot , and bore him sadly off to the city of troy , to win which we have suffered so much hardship ? hold your peace , my friend , you too shall live but for a little season ; death and the day of your doom are close upon you , and they will lay you low by the hand of hector . all had then been lost and no help for it , and the weapon sped not in vain , for it hit phegeus on the breast near the nipple , and he fell , stretching out both hands before him . peneleos then drew his sword , and killed iphidamas by striking him on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by pisander son of maemalus , the finest spearman among all the myrmidons next to achilles own comrade patroclus . the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
