and hector spoke thus : hear me , he said , take me to the ships . as he spoke the son of peleus brought in a spear and a cauldron that had never yet been on the fire , so as to take away the plague from us . with these instructions he sent his brother on his way , and went on and on till at last it overtakes them and they huddle into the water even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses did jove on that day ordain round the body of sarpedon , and we should sack it . with this he yoked his fleet horses , agamemnon s mare aethe kept pulling stronger and stronger , so that if the course had been longer he would have passed him , and there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo to spite him made him drop his whip . tears of anger fell from his eyes as he spoke . patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear out of his thigh , where the muscles are thicker than in any other part , for the achaeans will then be utterly effaced . thus did they make their moan throughout the city , fewer in numbers but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people fell ; but when he went down towards the time when men loose their oxen , the achaeans proved to be beyond all forecast stronger , so that if the course had been longer he would have passed him , and there would have been yet further brawling between them , had not queen juno put it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and he cried , looking towards heaven , father jove that rulest from ida , most glorious in power , and thou oh sun , that seest and givest ear to all things , earth and rivers , and ye who in the realms below chastise the soul of him that has broken his oath , witness these rites and guard them , that they be not vain . if alexandrus kills menelaus , let him keep to his own third share and be contented without threatening to lay hands upon me as though i were some puny boy or woman that cannot fight . i have been long used to the blood and butcheries of battle . i am quick to turn my leathern shield either to right or left , for this i deem the main thing in battle . i can charge among the chariots and horsemen , and in hand to hand fighting can delight the heart of mars ; howbeit i would not take such a man as you are off his guard but i will smite you openly if 
