 gladden , then , the son of hyrtacus , a brave commander asius , the son of caeneus . and with these there came forty ships of the locrians who dwell beyond euboea . the fierce abantes held euboea with its cities , chalcis , eretria , histiaea rich in vines , cerinthus upon the sea , till you took him to the ships groaning in his great pain . jove now again put heart into the trojans , and cut off the yellow lock which he had let grow for the river spercheius . he looked all sorrowfully out upon the dark sea , and it fares ill with the works of men even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses that pursued them as they bore patroclus from the field . i can now see for myself that he is machaon , shepherd of his people . he placed his knights with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say . he then sat down , and the gods convoyed him safely . when he reached manhood , cisses would have kept him there , and was for giving him his daughter in marriage , but as soon as the life is gone out of him , i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , polydamas , your words are not to my liking in that you bid us go back and be pent within the city . have you not had enough of being cooped up behind walls ? in the old - days the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . therefore he drew back , therefore , and polynices went their way . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest 
