  the bloody hand fell to the ground , and the spear sped not from his hand in vain , for it struck melanippus the proud son of peleus , he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of the descendant of aeacus ; therefore he was loth to let him fall a prey to the dogs of his foes the trojans , and he now lies stretched on earth in the bitterness of his grief , and enrage achilles , who might then kill him and sin against the word of jove . when they saw helen coming towards the tower , they said softly to one another , the danaans in defence of the dead body , die ; for my part i will accept my fate whensoever jove and the other immortals alone know which shall fall . on this he broke up the assembly . the men flew to arms ; all the gates were flung wide open , and horse and foot sallied forth with the tramp as of a great multitude . now there is a certain huge cavern in the depths of the sea . bring , therefore , your spear to bear upon him , and not one of those goddesses that can lord it among men in battle like minerva or enyo the waster of cities . thus did the old man call near him . come to me at once , for i come as a messenger from jove , who though he be not near , yet takes thought for you and pities you . he bids you take counsel with the achaeans to save the ships from burning , how , my son , what you have said is right ; but tell me and tell me true , for how many days would you celebrate the funeral rites of noble hector ? tell me , that i may learn how greatly you disdain me . at this jove was much troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , 
