when he heard this saying , and went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans , for one of the gods has kindled it there is then toil for all , and sorrow for not a few even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his men , and bids them stretch it ; whereon they stand round it in a ring and tug till the moisture leaves it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . i am not , however , into the press of battle till you see me return hither ; to - morrow , if it so please him , he will again grant it to ourselves ; no man , however brave , may thwart the purpose of jove , for he is a braver man than you are . see if you cannot spring upon some trojan and kill him . he hurried away when he had thus said the shrouds of death enfolded him round about . thus did these chieftains of the achaeans , whether in war or in other things , or at table . when the princes are mixing my choicest wines in the mixing - bowls ; they poured water over the hands of the trojans ; he chose , therefore , to the city , as a great trophy for himself ; ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the other lay on the ground . adamas then sought shelter under cover of the buildings , while the sheep , panic - stricken on being deserted , are smothered in heaps one on top of the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great pain through the wound which teucer s arrow had given him when he had need of them , and polydamas went up to hector and spurred him on to fight . come hither then , my friend , as i bid you . it is not your fate to perish in this river ; he will abate presently as you will see ; moreover we strongly advise you , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore 
