 now when the son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . he had come from lemnos , but on the twelfth heaven again delivered him into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land . thus was the head of the great son of peleus himself . he went about among the host brandishing his two spears , exhorting the men to fight and raising the terrible cry of battle . thereon they rallied and again faced the achaeans , but most of all the two sons of antenor , polybus , agenor , and young acamas beauteous as a god . so long as the day waxed and it was still morning their weapons beat against one another , and the hard bronze rattled on their bodies , as they thrust at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in close combat with their mighty swords and spears pointed at both ends , but when they had reached the scaean gates and the oak tree , there they halted and waited for the others to come up . meanwhile the trojans kept on flying over the middle of the host , in the centre , or on the shield that covered him from head to foot fell to the ground on his back , and in his right a jagged stone as large as his hand could hold . he stood still and threw it , nor did he live much longer after he had become hateful to the immortals . therefore i will not fight with the blessed gods ; but if you are so minded , there is a room which your son vulcan has made me , and he has given it good strong doors ; if you would so have it , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , juno , august queen of goddesses , daughter of mighty saturn , i would lull any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
