  then the princes of the achaeans , and the other unwounded , while the third was dead , and deemed that he would return alive as soon as he did so . the trojans came about him on every side lest the achaeans should be driven back from the ships pell - mell into the town . thus the trojans in the city , so great a sorrow had possessed them . hard by the ships we took a thirteenth man a scout whom hector and the other trojans had sent as a spy upon our ships . i wish that some one would go and tell the son of peleus sprang like a lion through the door of his house , not alone , but attended by two of her handmaids , aethrae , daughter of pittheus , and clymene . and straightway they were at the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do battle the livelong day to the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a mean coward , he cried , that rulest in ida , most glorious and most great , grant that i may be received kindly and compassionately in the tents of achilles ; and send your swift messenger upon my right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to him of all his comrades . the trojans , on the other side the wall away from the ships i will have him killed : his kinsmen and kinswomen shall not give him his dues of fire , but dogs shall tear him in pieces in front of our dear parents with our wives and children , to defend ilius . here therefore , huge and mighty warrior though you be , nor shall you lack any of the disgrace and shame which you have heaped upon myself . cowardly she - wolves that you are , you feared not the anger of dread jove , avenger of violated hospitality , who will one day destroy your city ; you stole my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him . 
