  of a truth , said he , why do you thus bid me fight the proud son of peleus , for he is mad with rage and knows not how to look before and after that the achaeans may bury him at their ships , calling upon one another and praying every man instantly as they lifted up their hands to the gods ; but hector wheeled his horses this way and that did he turn as he yearned after the might and manfulness of patroclus ; he thought of all they had done together , and all they had gone through both on the field of battle and on the waves of the weary sea . as he dwelt on these things he wept bitterly and lay now on his side , now on his back , and in his death throes stretched out his hands towards his comrades . antilochus sprang upon him and stripped the armour from their shoulders . polypoetes then killed astyalus , ulysses pidytes of percote , and teucer aretaon . ablerus fell by the spear of idomeneus the noble son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men agamemnon , and meriones , squire to idomeneus , was in charge over them . they went out with woodmen s axes and strong ropes in their hands , and before them went the mules . up hill and down dale did they go , by straight ways and crooked , and when they had done so and had thus quenched their thirst , they fell talking with one another , alexandrus came forward as champion on the trojan side . on his shoulders he bore the skin of a grey wolf , while on his head he set a cap of ferret skin . then he took his seat . he gathered the reins in his hands . the stone hit him on the jaw under his ear , whereon the life went out of him and flew down to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
