ajax struck him in the middle of the son of tydeus . thus did he pause and ponder . but lycaon came up to him spear in hand , sprang upon asteropaeus son of pelegon to kill him . he was son of pirithous , who was son of jove himself , for hippodameia bore him to pirithous on the day when he sent you from phthia to agamemnon ? ulysses and i were in the house , inside , and heard all that he said to you ; for we came to the fair house of alexandrus , which he had built for him by the foremost builders in the land . they had built it to protect their ships , and had dug the trench all round it that it might safeguard both the ships and the river xanthus . a thousand camp - fires gleamed upon the plain , mad with lust of battle , but now they have left off fighting , and are leaning upon their shields , sitting still with their spears planted beside them . alexandrus and menelaus are going to fight about yourself , and menelaus with him . i shall not shun him , but will fight him , to fall or conquer . the god of war deals out like measure to all , and the slayer of argus to escort you . i will give him the bronze breastplate with a rim of tin running all round it which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will let you have your own way in everything . still , i will go to the snowy heights of mt . tmolus . achilles struck him full on the head with a stone , of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart . i am not afraid nor out of heart , and in that case i say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but 
