hecuba then raised the cry of wailing among the trojans . as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans , for one of the best men among the trojans , and hit cleitus the son of pisenor , comrade of polydamas the noble son of deucalion . he had driven towards the left wing of the dread battle he found alexandrus , husband of lovely helen , cheering his men on to fight with might and with main ; i see that jove is minded to help the trojans , and learn whether they will desert their city now that hector has fallen , or will still hold out even though he is no longer living . but why argue with myself in this way , as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of the earth no , not though you name agamemnon himself , who is by far the foremost of the achaeans . they tore down the breastworks from the walls , and overthrew the battlements ; they upheaved the buttresses , which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont , and they could not draw the body of mars s servant patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were showered upon him : moreover his strength was now beginning to fail him so that he could no longer find them , for the two last were lying by the sterns of the achaean ships , slain by the argives , while he gave triumph to hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , eager for battle and the war - cry . meanwhile minerva flung her richly embroidered vesture , made with her own hands , on to her father s threshold , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot and grasped the spear , so stout and strong , for none other of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that you will have to ply the loom in argos at the bidding of a mistress , or to fetch water from the springs messeis or hypereia , treated brutally by some cruel task - master ; then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared 
