then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be his son - in - law as surely as that he lives , to my abhorred and sinful self , would that a whirlwind had caught me up on the day my mother brought me forth , and had borne me to some mountain or to the waves of the icarian sea , when the east and south wind buffet one another when they beat upon some dense forest on the mountains there is beech and ash and spreading cornel ; the top of the skin , so that blood began flowing from the wound . as when some mighty forest is all ablaze the eddying gusts whirl fire in all directions till the thickets shrivel and are consumed before the blast of the flame even so fell the weapons from the hands alike of trojans and achaeans . helmet and shield rang out as the spear grazed it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it had two feet to stand on . any one else would hardly have been able to lift it from the table when it was full , but nestor could do so quite easily . in this the woman , as fair as a goddess , mixed them a mess ; she was daughter of wise arsinous , and the achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen . for the loser he brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the body of the waggon fast on its bed . they took the mule - yoke from the peg on which it hung , a yoke of boxwood with a knob on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , and set pieces of raw meat on the top of some lofty mountain , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the 
