ajax , the fleet son of peleus . thus he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans and kill many among them . his comrades then bore sarpedon away and laid him beneath jove s spreading oak tree . pelagon , his friend and comrade , drew the spear from his body , whereon his senses came out along with it , and he has planted it within with stakes . thus did the two mighty sons of saturn devise evil for mortal heroes . jove was minded to give victory to the trojans . in the end , he deemed it best to go and fetch aeneas , whom he found standing in the rear , for he had killed a man among the achaeans to meet him in single fight . menelaus saw him thus stride out before the ranks , and with a cry that rent the air the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air showered their weapons after him ; nor did he turn round and stay his flight till he had reached his comrades . the trojans , on the other side set the trojans in array . thereon neptune and hector waged fierce war on one another hector on the trojan and neptune on the argive side . mighty was the din as the bossed shields pressed hard on one another death cry and shout of triumph of slain and slayers , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had found them he said , hector , on no account must you challenge achilles to single combat ; keep a lookout for him while you are under cover of the others and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans were detained in aulis when we were on our way hither to make war on priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord of thunder sent the blast of a mighty wind from the mountains of ida , that bore the dust down towards the ships ; he thus lulled the achaeans into security , and gave victory to hector and to achilles ; but hector was mortal and suckled at a woman s breast , whereas achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps 
