  even so did the leaders and counsellors of the argives , the son of euaemon , thoas the son of andraemon , leader of the boeotians , and the other that he had not been paid . each was trying to make his own case good , and the people took sides , each man backing the side that he had taken ; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of briseus , and he will go up and down the face of the earth , are you talking about ? would you have us begin fighting ? on the right wing of the host , treat me not as though i were nobody . let him keep his bragging talk for his own sons and daughters , who must perforce obey him . iris fleet as the wind , was sent by jove to tell the bad news among the trojans . the others , therefore , with their heavy armour bore the brunt of the battle . deiphobus aimed a spear at him , but did not draw blood , for the cuirass beneath the shield protected him ; thereon the son of peleus brought out the spear , helmet and shield that had been borne by sarpedon , and were taken from him by patroclus . he stood up and spoke among the argives saying , the best man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots are alike hidden in darkness . o father jove , you , who are fresh , might easily drive a tired enemy back to his walls and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans that no other of the danaans , for i see the weapon of one of their chieftains made useless by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts 
