 if jove again vouchsafes glory to the son of peleus . now , however , let it be as he will , but it shall go hard with him . i shall not defend them and i shall not care . even if i did , and tried to stay you , i should take nothing by it , for i am not of the same womb as hector who slew your brave and noble comrade . with such words did the princely son of priam beseech achilles ; but achilles answered him sternly . idiot , said he , i shall take it much amiss if you do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how willing he may be . with these words the dark - haired god led the way to the high earth - barrow of hercules , built round solid masonry , and made by the trojans and pallas minerva for him to fly to when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them , and had refreshed them , they went into the sea and washed the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them , shed tears over them , and lifted them upon their waggons . priam had forbidden the trojans to wail aloud , so they heaped their dead sadly and silently upon the pyre , groaning the while he did so . the myrmidons were struck with awe as they beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war , and many a bloody battle have i waged by day against those who were fighting on the achaean side took charge of it as it rolled at his feet , but the bird perched on the ship s mast hanging her head and with all her feathers drooping ; the life went out of it . the other two horses began to plunge ; the pole of the chariot cracked and they got entangled in the reins through the fall of the horse that was yoked along with them ; but automedon knew what to do ; without the loss of a moment he drew the keen blade that hung so great and strong , he made a breastplate also that shone brighter than fire . he made a helmet , close fitting to the brow , and richly worked , with a golden plume overhanging it ; and he made greaves also of beaten tin . lastly , when the famed lame god had made all the armour , he took it and set it before the mother of achilles ; whereon she darted like a falcon from the snowy summits 
