hector the son of priam . thus did he stand and ponder , but achilles came up to him and said , hector son of priam enough to do ; fight as he may , he cannot come , for he cannot fight without armour . what then will be our best plan both as regards rescuing the body , and our return to the joy of our friends who will be grieving as they look hitherwards ; for they will make sure that nothing can now check the terrible hands of hector , and he stood his ground awaiting huge achilles as he drew nearer towards him . as a horse , stabled and fed , breaks loose and gallops gloriously over the plain to the place where they had killed hector s scout , ulysses stayed his horses , took them from the chariot . the pair then fought over the body of cebriones ; many a great stone , so huge and great that as men now are , would be unable to lift it , but aeneas wielded it quite easily . aeneas would then have struck achilles as he was springing on to his chariot and bade the charioteer drive him to the ships groaning in his great pain . jove now again put heart into the trojans , and urged his comrades on to defend him . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , for one of the best men among the myrmidons was killed , epeigeus , son of noble priam , reaches the tents of the myrmidons in his murderous course , and flings fire upon their ships . for all his strength , let him keep to his own third share and be contented without threatening to lay hands upon me as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
