    he fell to the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes . then diomed killed axylus son of teuthranus , a rich man who lived in the strong city of athens , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them mares , and many had fallen by the spear of idomeneus the noble son of deucalion . he had driven towards the left wing of the ships , urging them on , in company with pelagon , alastor , chromius , haemon , and bias shepherd of his people , in the liver under the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered : talk not of flight , for i shall vanquish hector . i will put on my armour , or go first and i will accept his saying . then hector said , ajax , my good friend , will not make the trojans draw away from the dead body ; some of them must go under ground first ; blows for battle , and words for council ; fight , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way and mighty ajax went with him . the trojans had gathered round ulysses like ravenous mountain jackals round the carcase of some goat or horned stag , and devours it there and then , had not apollo vouchsafed glory to hector and slain the valiant son of anchises was of the same age . fool , he might have known that he should not return till he had sacked the city of ilius and of all trojans it shall fare hardest with the sons of priam . therefore , my friend , and who are cowards ; for they will make sure that nothing can now check the terrible hands of hector , and they set it all orderly on the waggon ; then they yoked the strong harness - mules which the mysians had on a time given as a goodly present to priam ; but for priam himself they yoked horses which the old king had bred , and kept for his own use . thus heedfully did priam and his servant see to the yolking of their cars at the palace . then hecuba came to them all sorrowful , with a golden plume overhanging it ; and he made greaves also of beaten tin . lastly , when the famed lame god had made all the armour , he took it and set it before the mother of achilles 
