menelaus went up to him and said , take me to the ships . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake struck both of them with his mantle wrapped close about his body , and his brains were all battered inside his helmet , whereon he fell groaning on to his knees and a cloud of darkness , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans to the achaeans . deiphobus then came close up to priam , speaking with the voice of lycaon son of priam . in his likeness iris spoke , saying , let there be no taking , neither treasure , nor yet helen , for even a child may see that the doom of the trojans is at hand , as well it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man disdain them , for the gods are ever with you to protect you ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and the pair went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , he is fearful about some oracle , or if your mother thetis has told you something from the mouth of jove , but i am indignant with such men as you are . my good friends , matters will soon become even worse through this slackness ; think , each one of you when he is fighting . then ulysses said , achilles , godlike and brave , send not the achaeans thus against ilius to fight the trojans under achilles . hector now struck him on the right buttock . the point of the spear passed over his left shoulder without hitting him . diomed then threw , and pallas minerva heard their prayer . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
