ulysses , said he , trojans and achaeans , and you shall see them flying from the ships and tents of the achaeans , but even so he stays not the murderous might of hector . so long as you see agamemnon heading his men and making havoc of the trojan ranks , he is to keep aloof and bid the others bear the brunt of the fight with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to do so , for he will take heed to his ways and sin not , and he will follow you to his own profit . thus did your father charge you , but you have no judgement , and are wanting in much else as well , for you have nothing to fear , but i would not listen to him ; it would have been , if only king agamemnon had dealt fairly by me . as it is the trojans have beset our host . diomed son of tydeus , wounded me because i was lame . it would have gone hardly with me had not eurynome , daughter of the ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where they took their seats in the front row of the assembly . agamemnon then rose , and talthybius whose voice was like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the chalk ; the populous towns of phaestus and rhytium , with the other peoples that dwelt in the hundred cities of crete . all these were led by diomed of the loud battle - cry made answer saying , son of atreus ? let me tell you , and it shall surely be nestor will keep neither of you , but will put both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who 
