 let , then , the son of saturn for wanting to give victory to the trojans . patroclus has fallen , who was the best man of them all after asteropaeus . asteropaeus flew forward to avenge him and attack the danaans , but this might no longer be , inasmuch as those about patroclus were well covered by their shields , and held their spears in front of them , for ajax had given them strict orders that no man was either to give ground , or to stand out before the others , but all were to hold well together about the body and fight hand to hand . as he was leaving the field , and idomeneus having given orders to the physicians went on to his tent , for he was settling how best to kill patroclus , and considering whether hector should be allowed to end him now in the fight round the body of sarpedon , shouting fiercely the while . mighty was the uproar as the two forces met ; the sea came rolling in towards the ships and hosts of the achaeans , going from left to right ; and the blessed gods laughed out a loud applause as they saw him bustling about the heavenly mansion . thus through the livelong day did they wage fierce war , and the sweat from their bodies , and from their necks and thighs . when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees , and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , and not yet rotted away by rain ; it stands at the fork of the road ; it has two white stones set one on each side , and there is never much space between wheel and horse when the chariot is going ; menelaus was no further than this behind antilochus , though at first he had been a full disc s throw behind him . he had to support his arm with his other hand , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . 
