  stand , therefore , son of atreus , i too would gladly be the man i was when i first left hellas the land of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i had converse with you upon the couch of love in the island of lemnos , and there i lay , with very little life left in me , till the sintians came and tended me . juno smiled at this , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say , little though we may like it , we shall have no rest , not for a moment , till night falls to part us . the bands that bear your shields shall be wet with the sweat upon your shoulders , your hands shall weary upon your spears , your horses shall steam in front of your chariots , and if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the fountainhead of all this war , and all the treasure that lies on the stone floor of apollo s temple beneath the cliffs of pytho . cattle and sheep are to be had for harrying , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when his life has once left him it can neither be bought nor harried back again . my mother thetis tells me that there are two ways in which i may meet my end . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i will 
