 now when the son of tydeus , said he , son of tydeus . when they had thus armed , each amid his own people , but the men said never a word ; no man would think it , for huge as the host was , it seemed as though there was not a trojan but his limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of peleus must now have put aside his anger , and have been reconciled to agamemnon ; every one , therefore , looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety . tell me now ye muses that dwell in the mansions of olympus , who , whether of the trojans or of their allies , was first to face agamemnon ? it was iphidamas son of antenor , a man both brave and of great stature , by hitting him on the temple through his bronze - cheeked helmet . the plumed headpiece broke about the point of the spear went clean through him . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard the battle - cry , and sthenelus son of famed capaneus . with them in command was euryalus , son of king mecisteus , son of talaus ; but diomed was chief over them all . meanwhile the whole plain was dried and the flood stayed . as the north wind , blowing on an orchard that has been sodden with autumn rain , soon dries it , and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it , and it had a double top - rail running all round it which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , if the trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of our ships , and let the others fight no more . bring , then , two lambs , a white ram and a black ewe , for earth and sun , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
