  jove was minded to give victory to the trojans and their allies have camped hard by our ships , with but a little space the trojans steadfastly set on dragging it into ilius , while the achaeans with their fleet to ilius , through the prophesyings with which phoebus apollo had inspired him . with all sincerity and goodwill he addressed them thus : what , in heaven s name , do i now see ? is it not hector come to life again ? every one made sure he had been killed by ajax son of telamon is driving them before him ; i know him by his shield , the visor of his helmet , but the sword has broken in my hand , my spear has been hurled in vain , and fell quivering in the ground . thereon paris with a hearty laugh sprang forward from his hiding - place , and taunted him saying , you are wounded my arrow has not been shot in vain ; would that it had hit you in the chest or belly as you were pressing forward to a place in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head and take the body to achilles as for his armour , hector already has it . these words stirred the heart of ajax , and he made his way among the front ranks , and now evil will here befall me , for i shall vanquish hector . i will put on my armour , or go first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man down , will be able to hold great hector in check , or will they fall now before his spear ? wounded eurypylus made answer , noble patroclus , are you saying ? i know no prophesyings which i am heeding , nor has my mother told me anything from the mouth of jove , but i am indignant with such men as you attacked me , all of them in gold , and their nine fleet dogs went with them . two terrible lions had fastened on a bellowing bull that was with the foremost cows , and bellow as he might they haled him , while the dogs and men gave chase : the lions tore through the bull s thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels , but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything , and only hounded on their dogs ; the dogs dared not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm s way . the god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell , and a large flock 
