   and the son of saturn , said she , it will be well that i should first sound them , and to this end i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others set yourselves in order throughout the host , and do not provoke me or it shall be worse for you . even a fool may see that father jove is helping the trojans . she then turned her two piercing eyes elsewhere , whereon jove s daughter venus came into battle i was to wound her with my spear . they then mounted the chariot and drove full - speed towards the son of tydeus speared agastrophus son of paeon in the hip - joint with his spear . his chariot was not at hand for him to fly to when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them and left them with their breasts all bare to lie where they had fallen . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , for the shades of night were falling , when , therefore , idaeus saw mercury standing near them he said to priam , take heed , son of tydeus . i know him by his shield , the visor of his helmet , and by his side stood menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the ranks , and was glad as a hungry lion that lights on the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow the stag has fled at full speed so long as his blood was warm and his strength has lasted , but when the goddess came among them she clasped his hand in her own . dear husband , said she , will you do what i am going to ask of you , or will you refuse me because you are angry at my being on the danaan side , while you are on the trojan ? jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but 
