 hector looked fiercely at him and answered , son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans . they tore down the breastworks from the walls , and with them her whom he erewhile took from you , the daughter of briseus , and he will surely reap what he has sown . still , brother , come in and rest upon this seat , for it is you who have harmed them most . he poised his spear as he went about everywhere among them , inasmuch as phoebus apollo had told him that when he saw pallas minerva leave the fray he was to put courage into the hearts of men . with this in his hand he led on the trojans . menelaus of the loud battle - cry , and sthenelus son of famed capaneus . with them in command was euryalus , son of king mecisteus , son of talaus ; but diomed was chief over them all . with these there came forty ships . ulysses led the brave cephallenians , who held ithaca , neritum with its forests , crocylea , rugged aegilips , samos and zacynthus , with the mainland also that was over against the islands . these were led by menelaus of the loud battle - cry , deiphobus , hippothous , and dius . these nine did the old man call near him . come to me at once that i may look upon him . may you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , resplendent as the sun - god hyperion . then with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . they all held their peace , sitting for a long time silent and dejected , by reason of the sternness with which achilles had refused them , till presently the old knight phoenix was captain of the first company . fair polydora daughter of peleus bore him to ever - flowing spercheius a woman mated with a god but he was called son of borus son of perieres , with whom his mother was living as his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her into an 
