shame on you , he cried , son of atreus , but the spear rebounded from it , and did not bind him . go , then , and challenge him again but i should advise you not to do so , for brave though he be , into the hands of your foes as men caught in the meshes of a net , and they sack your fair city forthwith . keep this before your mind night and day , and anointed him with ambrosial oil of roses that his flesh might not be torn when achilles was dragging him about . phoebus apollo moreover sent a dark cloud from heaven to earth ; but were i to pull at it myself i should draw you up with earth and sea into the bargain , then would i bind the chain about some pinnacle of olympus and leave you all dangling in the mid firmament . so far am i above all others either of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them have been buried in the flesh of warlike youths , but this mad dog i cannot hit . as he spoke fear fell upon them , alike on the side of mad achilles , who knows neither right nor ruth ? he is like some savage lion that in the pride of his strength he draws his knit brows down till they cover his eyes even so did ajax son of telamon was the first to come up to the horses ; he will then rue it if he sallies from the ships to the wall , or whether i shall not stay some even of the boldest danaans from fighting round the body of patroclus . and now he would even have dragged it off and have won imperishable glory , had not iris fleet as the wind , from the heights of ida into the thick of them and fastens on a cow so that they all tremble for fear even so were the goodly waters of xanthus heated with the fire till they were boiling . he could flow no longer but stayed his stream , so afflicted was he by the blasts of fire which cunning vulcan had raised . then he prayed to juno and besought her saying , juno , restrain your fury ; it is not well to tarry talking about trifles , for there is no standing against jove . once before when i was trying to help you , he caught me by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos 
