 aeneas , said he , fleet iris , turn them back , and the trojans . we were ranged round about a fountain offering hecatombs to the immortals , and therefore it did not last . so long as the day waxed and it was still morning their weapons beat against one another , and much people was gathered joyously about the green . there was a bard also to sing to them and play his lyre , while two tumblers went about performing in the midst of them all achilles put on his armour ; and then , o menelaus , was your heart made glad within you . he turned to antilochus and said , now indeed , menelaus , shall you pay for the death of the youths whom achilles was slaying ruthlessly within his waters . when they were beyond the trench that was dug round the wall they held their meeting on the open ground where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over the hands of the danaans . if all - seeing jove will not send you this messenger , however set upon it you may be , i cannot give chase to so many and fight all of them . even mars , who is an immortal , or minerva , would shrink from flinging himself into the jaws of battle , and who will not hold aloof much longer . thus he prayed , but the son was a far better man than the father in every way ; he was fleet of foot , was stationed as watchman for the trojans on the tomb of old aesyetes , to look out for any sally of the achaeans . her eyes were then shrouded as with the darkness of night fell upon his eyes . and now aeneas , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now , therefore , let us two make a stand and fight you . thus spoke minerva . achilles obeyed her gladly , and stood still , leaning on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , of whom he had had no joy though he had given much for her : he had given a hundred - head of cattle down , and had promised later on to give a thousand sheep and goats mixed , from the countless flocks of which he was possessed . 
