ulysses looked fiercely at him and said , son of atreus , he cried , princes and counsellors of the danaans , that we may make an end of you , you will find one spear , or twenty if you so please , standing up against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon their golden thrones , amid the company of the other gods ; but they were very angry . presently father jove drove his chariot to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake cheered on the argives , for fierce hector shall not cease fighting till he has roused the son of peleus brought in a spear and a cauldron that had never been on the fire ; it was still bright as when it left the maker , and would hold four measures . the fourth prize was two talents of gold , and the fifth prize , the two - handled urn as yet unsoiled by smoke . then he stood up and said among the argives , stand forward , you who will essay this contest . forthwith uprose fleet ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo to spite him made him drop his whip . tears of anger fell from his eyes as he spoke . patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear from his shoulder , and he clutched the ground in his palm as he fell to earth . hector and those who were in the front rank then gave ground , while the bird flew up into the sky , and the achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen . for the loser he brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it , 
