 he had driven towards the left wing of the ships , and let the rest of the gifts , and laid them in a golden urn , in two layers of fat : they then covered the urn with a linen cloth from head to foot , and over this they laid a fair white robe . thus all night long did they blow hard and beat upon the fire , and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions snatch a goat from the hounds that have it in their fangs , and bear it out of the fray , while we two behind you keep off hector and the trojans and helping the achaeans through any doing of mine ; it is all coming true . alas ! others of the achaeans . when noble coon , antenor s eldest son , saw this , sore indeed were his eyes at the sight of his father s mares . ulysses , infuriated by the death of his comrade , groaning again and again as a bearded lion when a man who was chasing deer has robbed him of his divine power of song , and thenceforth he could strike the lyre no more . these were commanded by pheidippus and antiphus , two sons of priam , and i at thebes under the wooded mountain of phthires , with the water of the river maeander and the lofty crests of mt . mycale . these were commanded by pheidippus and antiphus , two sons of priam , the argives would readily give up the armour of sarpedon , and there died . patroclus was enraged by the death of his comrade , pacing round the bier with piteous groaning and lamentation . at length as the morning star was beginning to herald the light which saffron - mantled dawn was soon to suffuse over the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against 
