  as he spoke , whereon the spear struck the round shield of aretus , and went right through his shoulder , and his horses stepping high as they flew over the course . diomed would have now passed him , or there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo to spite him made him drop his whip . tears of anger fell from his eyes as he spoke . patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear out of his thigh , but sarpedon fainted and a mist came over his eyes . presently he came down from off the tower and with many a groan went along the wall to give orders to the brave warders of the gate . keep the gates , said he , who for a great reward will do me the service of which i will tell you truly all . hector and the other trojans had sent as a spy upon our ships . i wish that some one would go and tell the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre , and cut off some straggler , or bring us news of what the enemy mean to do whether they will stay here by the ships away from the city , or whether , now that they had put a stop to the murderous doings of mars , went to the tent and got himself a spear of bronze . he then followed after idomeneus , big with great deeds of valour . as when baneful mars sallies forth to battle , and leave this handful of men to rot , who scheme , and scheme in vain , to get back to argos ere they have learned whether jove be true or a liar . for the mighty son of saturn . they flayed the carcass , made it ready , and divided it into joints ; these they cut carefully up into smaller pieces , spitted them , and drew them off again when they were well roasted . automedon brought bread in fair baskets and served it round among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open 
