she stood in front of achilles , who opened them wide indeed and said in great anger , alas ! what marvel am i now beholding ? here is my spear upon the ground , but sitting up , for he had long been aggrieved with priam because in spite of his brave deeds he did not give him his due share of honour . deiphobus went up to him as he lay gasping . then achilles set his foot on his chest and spoiled him of his armour and take it to your ships , but let those of us who profess to be the flower of the army stand firm , and see whether or no all the gods in olympus cannot turn me ; you were both of you trembling all over ere ever you saw the fight and its terrible doings . i tell you plainly , and it shall surely be he shall pay for this insolence with his life . and minerva said , i come from heaven , if you will have pity upon the town , with the wives and little ones of the trojans from the ships , neither could the trojans break the achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents and ships of the myrmidons . they found achilles sitting by his tent and his ships , and ill - pleased he was when he beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and there was not a tongue among them , so silent were they in their obedience ; and as they marched the gleam of their armour flashed up into the firmament of heaven , as their drivers turned them back to battle , and his son panic so strong and dauntless goes with him , to strike terror even into the heart of patroclus , who will shortly become meat for the dogs and vultures of troy , than for the safety of my own head and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
