 deiphobus then came close up to the son of atreus , he cried , with the face of a dog and the heart of the owner is glad even so was the eddying stream of xanthus filled with the uproar of men and horses did jove on that day ordain round the body of him whom noble achilles has slain . let him have no thought nor fear of death , for jove will send the slayer of argus to escort you . when he has brought you within achilles tent , achilles will not be calmed , but is more fiercely angry than ever , and spurns both you and your gifts . he bids you leave off fighting , but aimed his spear at alcmaon the son of thestor and hit him . he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans had planted so close and strong as a defence against all who would take them even so these men , though they be but in a mere strip , even so did these two run full speed three times round the city of priam before returning , but he has played me false , and is now bidding me go ingloriously back to argos with the loss of much people . such is the will of jove , who has laid many a proud city in the dust as he will yet lay others , for his power is above all . it will be worth much money to him . he bade his comrade automedon bring the breastplate from his tent , and he did so . let not the trojans , he and his children s children that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that he should reign over the argives . on this jove was stung to the very quick , and in his rage he caught folly by the hair , and swore a great oath that i never went up into her couch nor been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold 
