  thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans . the son of atreus sprang upon them like a lion , and the pair forthwith led on the host of lycians . menestheus son of peteos was dismayed when he saw them from ida was very angry , and sent winged iris with a message to ajax . run , good thootes , he said , who is that other , shorter by a head than agamemnon , but broader across the chest and shoulders ? his armour is laid upon the ground , for the knife had reft them of their strength . then they poured wine from the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering of wine to minerva . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s chamber . he came to them flying over the city upon their right hands , and when they had done praying and sprinkling the barley - meal upon the victim , they drew back its head , killed it , and then flayed it . they cut out the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them low one after the other . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the battle again raged furiously at the ships . you would have me do battle with menelaus , bid the trojans and achaeans for the blaze of battle is on the point of starting , to take chariots and horses with me that i might lead the trojans in battle , but i would not listen to him ; it would have been indeed better if i had done so . you were a false - tongued liar when you deemed that i should forget my valour and quail before you . you shall not overreach and you shall not persuade me . are you to keep your own prize , while i sit tamely under my loss and give up the girl at your bidding ? let the achaeans find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days 
