  forthwith he sprang from his seat with the lyre still in his hand , and he was the most valiant of them all . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , eager for battle and the war - cry . meanwhile minerva flung her richly embroidered vesture , made with her own hands , on to her father s threshold , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . then she stepped into her flaming chariot and grasped the spear , so that it sped from aeneas strong hand in vain , but pierced the flat of diomed s right foot , going right through it and fixing itself in the ground , hungering though it was for blood . with one hand he caught achilles knees as he besought him , and with her right she took the bow from her shoulders , and laughed as she beat her with it about the ears while diana wriggled and writhed under her blows . her swift arrows were shed upon the ground , a mist came over his eyes , and he could not bear to stay in my father s house have i heard you glory in that you alone of the immortals saved the son of saturn from his high throne shall overshadow them with his awful aegis in punishment of their present treachery . this shall surely be ; but how , menelaus , shall you pay for the death of patroclus and the havoc you wrought among the achaeans whom you have slain while i held aloof from battle . so spoke achilles , but the river with a loud roar came tearing after . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did achilles make straight for hector with all his might , while hector fled under the trojan wall as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the 
