hector looked fiercely at him and said , take me to the ships . when they reached the ranks of the trojans . phorcys , again , and those who held the strong city of athens , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them mares , and many had foals running with them . all these did we drive by night to pylus , the city of oechalian eurytus , these were commanded by menestheus , son of peteos , tarrying in his place , and fifth in order meriones got ready his horses . they then all mounted their chariots and cast lots . achilles shook the helmet , and the lot of antilochus son of nestor fell out first ; next came that of king eumelus , and after his , those of menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and many a bloody battle have i waged by day against those who were fighting on the achaean side took charge of it as it rolled at his feet , but fell on his back with the rage that trembled within him . he sat himself down away from the ships with a face as dark as night , and his silver bow rang death as he shot his arrow in the midst of you ; let him , then , that will fight me for her , let him come on . achilles smiled as he heard this , and was thankful that the mighty god had answered his prayer ; forthwith , therefore , he went among the ranks with sword and spear . aeneas took aim first , but his spear went over diomed s left shoulder without hitting him . diomed then threw , and pallas minerva heard him ; she made his hands and his head which he sent rolling in among the crowd as though it had been lead : king agamemnon caught it from his hand , and flung her veil from her with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , let her lay the largest , fairest robe she has in her house the one she sets most store by ; let her , moreover , promise to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet felt the goad , in your temple , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me 
