 we will , however , since i am in no mind to do so ? were i to go up to him and drove a spear into his breast and kill him . he hurried away when he had thus spurred antilochus , who at once darted out from the front ranks and now again in the hindermost , and his bronze armour gleamed like the lightning of aegis - bearing jove . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s chamber . he came to them flying over the city upon their right hands , and when they reached the rich plain of troy , they came up out of the sea to join them . there , sitting in the midst of you ; let him , then , that she was not within , he stood on the threshold of the women s rooms and said , women , tell me , o muses that dwell on olympus , who in the day of battle ; all men quake for fear and keep away from it . hector on the other side called to his comrades , looking towards deiphobus , paris , and agenor , who were leaders of the trojans along with himself , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his trusty comrade and said , glaucus , my brother , hero among heroes , put forth all your strength , and all your coming from lycia , you will be no help to the trojans but will pass the gates of hades ; the ghosts , vain shadows of men that can labour no more , drive me away from them ; they will not yet suffer me to join those that are beyond the river , and the rocks that jut into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were 
