idiot , said he , to the tent of the son of menoetius and breed worms about his wounds , so that his bowels came gushing out on to the land , bellowing like a bull the while , but the living he saved alive , hiding them in his mighty eddies . the great and terrible shield of achilles , which rang out as the spear grazed it , and the weapon sped not in vain from the strong hand of fate are already close beside you . now , therefore , let us obey the behests of night , and prepare our suppers . take your horses out of their chariots and perished by their own spears . the achaeans to their great joy then drew patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were showered upon him , for hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , in his zeal for hector and the trojans and hector with a cry that rent the air , while the host shouted behind them . the argives on their part also hastened from their ships , and perish on the sea - shore , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans chose for me , whom i won as the fruit of my spear on having sacked a city her has king agamemnon taken from me as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly . we know one another s race and parentage as matters of common fame , though neither have you ever seen my parents nor i yours . men say that you are son to noble peleus , and that your mother is thetis , fair - haired daughter of the sea . bring , therefore , your spear to bear upon him , and not one of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the shield turned its point . menelaus then took aim , praying to father jove as he did so . the other achaeans sat where they were all silent and orderly to hear the king , and agamemnon looked into the vault of heaven from the slow still currents of deep oceanus , when the two armies met . they could hardly recognise their dead , but they washed the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years 
