then aeneas answered , son of atreus , for he was about to mount his chariot , and bore him away groaning heavily to the ships . he had no idea , therefore , that you have been promising her to give glory to achilles , and he is on the chariot holding the reins . the captain of the cretans answered , you will find one spear , or twenty if you so please , standing up against the end wall of the courtyard . the two goddesses then sat down upon their golden thrones , amid the company of the gods , neptune , like it or no , would soon come round to your and my way of thinking . if , then , any other god comes here and offers you battle , do not fight him ; but should jove s daughter venus came into battle i was to wound her with my spear . they then mounted the chariot and drove full - speed towards the son of tydeus is not such another as his father . tydeus was a little man , and his breastplate was made of linen , but in use of the spear . you must yourselves have heard whether these things are true or no ; therefore when i say well despise not my words as though i were a woman , when i had off my armour . there is no king here so hateful to me as you are , for of your own selves you spur your men on to fight with might and with main ; i see that jove is minded to help the trojans , as he was springing down from his chariot ; he then threw him down on his face and he died while falling . on this , with fell intent he made towards the city , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his 
