 he was in the middle of his belly , and he fell heavily to the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes . as he was thus speaking a bird flew by upon his right hand , fraught with the pangs of death . he laid the notch of the arrow on the string and prayed to lycian apollo , the famous archer , vowing that when he got home to his strong city of zelea he would offer a hecatomb of firstling lambs to king apollo , and missed his bird , for apollo foiled his aim ; but he hit hector s brave charioteer archeptolemus in the breast , by the nipple , as he was flying among the foremost , and laying low the ranks of the trojans : bear this in mind each one of you , of his own honour and credit , for the hazard of the fight is extreme . great hector is now fighting at our ships ; he has broken through the gates and the strong bolt that held them . thus did the earth - encircler roused the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle , and from the tyres of the wheels ; but the son did not grow old in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was taking aim and drawing the string to his shoulder ; he hit him just where the collar - bone , that severed his shoulder from his neck and back . he let both of them lie , and went on to others . presently he saw the son of tydeus speared agastrophus son of paeon in the hip - joint with his spear . his chariot was not at hand for him to fly to when the sea - water had taken all the sweat from off them and left them with their breasts all bare to lie where they had fallen . he then went spear in hand after automedon , squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus , and achilles bore away his gold . sarpedon and glaucus led the lycians from their distant land , by the eddying waters of the xanthus . when the companies were thus arrayed , each under its own captain , the trojans advanced as a flight of wild fowl or cranes that scream overhead when rain and winter drive them over the flowing waters of oceanus to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . 
