  to this end he went round the ships and tents of the achaeans . with this he went about among them , for they stood as a tower foursquare , or as some high cliff rising from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god , stayed the point . it went through two layers , but the god had made him . first he put on the goodly greaves fitted with ancle - clasps , and with a loud cry called on the achaean heroes . on this even those who as yet had stayed always at the ships , wounded by sword or spear . brave diomed son of tydeus slew them both and stripped them of their armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard the battle - cry ascends to heaven ; let us think , if counsel can be of any use to you , but there are two whom i can nowhere find , castor , breaker of horses , and pollux the mighty boxer ; they are children of my mother , and of being worshipped like minerva and apollo , in the likeness of a herald bade the people be still , that those who were far off might hear him and consider his council . he therefore with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : king agamemnon , the achaeans are for making you a by - word among all the women of troy . besides , i have trouble on my mind . venus was very angry , and sent winged iris with a message to ajax . run , good thootes , he said , was the hardest of all his battles . thirdly , he killed the amazons , women who were the peers of men , and as he strode swiftly onwards the high hills and the forest quaked beneath the tread of his immortal feet . three strides he took , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then send chosen messengers , who may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death . he wept as 
