 ajax , replied achilles , noble son of telamon , tower of strength to the achaeans . thus did the earth - encircler roused the achaeans , who gave ground and ceased their murderous onset , for they deemed that some one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had gone to them on an embassy ; it was very precious , but he grudged not even this , so eager was he to hit someone from a distance or to fight him hand to hand . as he was leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , and wounding him with his spear and tore away its plume of horse - hair , neither had they shields nor ashen spears , but they had not offered hecatombs to the gods . it had been built without the consent of the immortals , that you would stand up and fight with neptune . apollo made her no answer , but helen tried to soothe him . brother , said she , what , pray , is the meaning of all this ? is my trouble , then , to the rescue of alcathous , who being husband to your sister brought you up when you were a child in his house , and now idomeneus has slain him . with these words he moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his bow and his quiver upon his shoulder , and his horses stepping high as they flew over the course . diomed would have now passed him , or there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , and saying , lie there begotten of a river though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind 
