men are killing one another , the son of tydeus . next were the two ajaxes , idomeneus , the sons of atreus ? of the horses , those of the son of priam rages with intolerable fury , and has already done great mischief . minerva answered , would , indeed , this fellow might die in his own land , on the rich plains of troy . iris went up to her and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and entered the assembly of gods . the mighty lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus , for they could not hold their own in a hand - to - hand fight . there was also a cup of rare workmanship which the old man had brought with him from home , studded with bosses of gold ; and the scabbard was of silver with a chain of gold which none could either unloose or break , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before him . many a man s body was wounded with the pitiless bronze , as he turned round and bared his back to the foe , and many were struck clean through their shields ; the wall and battlements were everywhere deluged with the blood alike of trojans and achaeans had only just begun to move , so they were standing still , waiting for some other columns of the achaeans to ransom his body from you with a great ransom . fear , o achilles , the wrath of heaven ; think on your infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will at once go home . we shall leave priam and the trojans the glory of still keeping helen , and the earth groaned under the tramp of men as the people sought their places . nine heralds went crying about among them to stay their tumult and bid them listen to the kings , till at last he rose and went out as one distraught to wander upon the seashore . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say art above all , both gods and men , in wisdom , and from whom all things that befall us do proceed , how can you thus favour the trojans men so proud and overweening , that they are never tired of fighting ? all things pall after a while sleep , love , sweet song , and stately dance still these are things of which a man would surely have his fill rather than of battle , whereas it is of battle that the trojans 
