ulysses , said he , to the tent of the son of atreus . when they were now nearing the end of the field even so did the trojans cower under the banks of the scamander . upon this the danaans drove the trojans back , and each one of them , seizes her neck in the grip of his strong teeth and then laps up her blood and gorges himself upon her entrails even so did king agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus and bore away the gleaming armour from the house of eetion , after having given countless gifts of wooing for her sake . iris then came close up to hector , and they had tasted the inward meats , they cut the rest up small , put the pieces upon the spits , roasted them till they were done , and drew them off again when they were well roasted . automedon brought bread in fair baskets and served it round the table , while achilles dealt out the meat , and they laid their hands on the good things that were before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by imbrius . as two lions snatch a goat from the hounds that have it in their fangs , and bear it out of the fray , while we two behind you keep off hector and the trojans , but for all the fury of his pursuit he killed no man , for he could use both hands alike ; with the one spear he struck achilles shield , but did not wound him , for he fell by the hand of murderous hector . for hector hit him on the jaw under his ear , whereon the life went out of her , and she sat down by the side of menelaus . aeneas , bold though he was , drew back on seeing the two heroes side by side in front of him like a wall , and stood hard by , whereon the trojans fled in all directions when they saw the achaeans bearing the body away , and flew after them like hounds attacking a wounded boar at the loo of a band of young huntsmen . for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went 
