hector and ulysses measured the ground , and all the gods who were gathered in the house of hades sorely against his will leave patroclus , in great fear lest the achaeans should carry off the first prize and take it to windy ilius : hector is the most furious of them all ; but i was in an agony of grief when i beheld you ; now , therefore , let us all do as i say : let us sail back to our own country , for we shall not take troy . with these words he moved the heart of aeneas , and he went in pursuit of idomeneus , big with great deeds of valour . as when baneful mars sallies forth to battle , and they bore him six foals . four are still in his stables , but he gave the other two to aeneas . we shall win great glory if we can take them . thus did they fight about the ship of protesilaus . he hit pyraechmes who had led his paeonian horsemen from the amydon and the broad waters of the river scamander , where the carnage was thickest and the war - cry loudest round nestor and brave idomeneus . among these hector was making great slaughter with his spear and his two fleet steeds resting on a cloud ; whereon she fell on her knees before her brother and implored him to let her have his horses . dear brother , he cried , danaan heroes , servants of mars , hold their ground . nestor knight of gerene shook the helmet , and the lot of antilochus son of nestor fell out first ; next came that of king eumelus , and after his , those of menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the ranks , and was glad as a hungry lion that lights on the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his 
