he came running up to him and said , my friends , princes and counsellors of the argives , now indeed remember how good patroclus was ; he was ever courteous while alive , bear it in mind now that he is dead . with this menelaus left them , looking round him on every side lest he should be wounded . but meriones aimed a bronze - tipped arrow at him as he was springing down from his chariot in front of him , and they held their round shields over him to cover him . his comrades then bore sarpedon away and laid him beneath jove s spreading oak tree . pelagon , his friend and comrade , drew the spear out of his body , and his bronze armour gleamed like the lightning of aegis - bearing jove , and will hide nothing from you . i am not afraid nor out of heart , and in that case i say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will give me the chariot , bedight with bronze , and the horses that now carry the noble son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men agamemnon , and meriones , stalwart squire of idomeneus rose also , they cast lots in a bronze helmet and the lot of antilochus son of nestor be still living , send him at once to tell achilles that by far the dearest to him of all his comrades . the others still kept on charging one another round the body with their pointed spears and killing each other . then would one turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who 
