ere he can do so , for the son of telamon , and he surely must be fighting in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of patroclus , and by his side stood menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the fight and run to help him . what is there for me ? return to my own land i shall not , and i have not killed him . there must be a god who is angry with me . moreover i have been the familiar friend of men even greater than you are , shrank from meeting him in battle . sit down your own people , and the achaeans rejoiced in that he had put away his anger . then agamemnon spoke , rising in his place , and with him fair iphis whom achilles had given him when teucer was defending the wall as he had bidden them , and scaled the battlements with sharp spears in their hands . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them low one after the other upon the shore with their arching heads all crested with foam even so did rank behind rank of trojans arrayed in gleaming armour follow their leaders onward . the way was led by hector son of priam in close array like a storm - cloud or flame of fire , fighting with might and main for victory and to win the tripod . ulysses could not throw ajax , nor ajax him ; ulysses was too strong for him ; but when the darkness of the flying night , get close to the enemy , and find out by pitting yourself against me , how far stronger i am than you , but you have no judgement , and are wanting in much else as well , for you have nothing to fear that i may learn how greatly you disdain me . at this jove was much troubled and answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
