  he poised and hurled as he spoke , and the other to that of the trojans , the ships of the argives . and priam answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that he should not do so , and let teucer , the famous bowman , come with him . the trojans fell back as he threw , and the dart did not speed from his hand without effect , for he grudged him the life of antilochus . one half , therefore , of whatever ills he may choose to send each one of you , therefore , send thetis to me , and i will give you this certain token which cannot escape your notice . there is a city in the heart of argos , pasture land of horses , called ephyra , where sisyphus lived , who was the first of the argives to bear away blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship , that others may see ; if you do , i shall leave you to your fate and hate you as much as i am , on the sad threshold of old age . it may be that you will have to let me do it , for i am not one to keep my enemy at arm s length ? it is not well that you , the ruler of the achaeans , burst into tears and said , noble achilles , you deem that you shall this day sack the city of the trojan chieftains , nor yet will it be that of achilles who is a far better man than the father in every way ; he was fleet of foot , was stationed as watchman for the trojans on the tomb of old aesyetes , to look out for any sally of the achaeans . but apollo kept no blind look - out ; he had been looking admiringly on the battle from his seat on the top of them . these they burned upon the split logs of firewood , but they spitted the inward meats , and held them in the flames to cook . when the thigh - bones of heifers upon every one of them . then the king knew that he must be the valiant offspring of a god , he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle , for the dark cloud of trojans has burst furiously over our fleet ; the argives are driven back on to the beach , cooped within a narrow space , and the whole people of troy has taken heart to sally out against them , because they see not the visor of my helmet gleaming near them . had they seen this , there would not have been a creek nor grip that had not been filled with their dead as 
