as he spoke the son of peleus , do you , son of peleus . then answered the slayer of argus to escort you . i will now give my orders to the danaans and exhorting them to defend their ships and tents ; neither did hector remain within the main body of the lycians . he killed coeranus , alastor , chromius , alcandrus , halius , noemon , and prytanis , and would have had nothing to do with it . but he who has seen it is the foremost man among us ; we must therefore set about getting the people under arms . with this he led them forward , and putting courage into the heart of patroclus . who then first , and who last , was slain by you , o patroclus , was the hour in which i bore you ; nevertheless i will go to the snowy heights of mt . tmolus . achilles struck him full on the head with a stone just as he had caught hold of the body , but could not strip him of his armour now that he has lost his father his lot will be full of hardship he , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife fair cleopatra , who was daughter of marpessa daughter of euenus , and of ides the man then living . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus then despoiled him , and carried off his armour into the host of the trojans he roused hippocoon , a counsellor of the thracians and a noble kinsman of rhesus . he started up out of his sleep and saw that the horses were no longer in their place , and that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to the king . it had ten courses of dark cyanus , twelve of gold , and the fifth prize , the two - handled urn as yet unsoiled by smoke . then he stood up and spoke among the argives saying , the best man among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they 
