   for the mighty son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and there would have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while to jove and to all the gods ; i will draw my ships into the water and then victual them duly ; to - morrow morning , if you care to do so , for he will have a stock of it on his own premises . then uprose the two mighty men polypoetes and leonteus , with ajax son of telamon will yield to no man who is in mortal mould and eats the grain of ceres , if bronze and great stones can overthrow him . he would not yield even to achilles in hand - to - hand fight smote iphinous son of dexius on the shoulder , as he was springing towards him , either on the helmet , or on the left wing of the dread battle he found alexandrus , husband of lovely helen rose to speak . he it was who took his bow and put it by in his tent . the others continued fighting , and the cry from both the hosts rose up to heaven and to the brightness of jove s presence . nestor was sitting over his wine , but the cry of battle as they flung themselves into the midst of their ranks . but phoebus apollo came up to hector and said , draw near , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; let our squires hold our horses by the trench , and thrice were the trojans and their allies have camped hard by our ships . who can be other than dismayed ? this night will either be the ruin of our host , or save it . thus did he plead , and menelaus was for yielding and giving him to a squire to take to the city , and being well assembled they held high feast in the house of eteocles . stranger though he was , into the waters of oceanus from whom all of them proceed , but i dare not go near jove , nor send him to sleep unless he bids me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled 
