 son of peleus , when i am in no mind to do so . he mounted the chariot , gathered the reins in his hand , and he cried , looking towards heaven , father jove , is there none of the gods who will take pity upon me , and save me from the river ? i do not care what may happen to me afterwards . i blame none of the other dwellers on olympus so severely as i do my dear mother , said he , achilles , we have had no scant of good cheer , neither in the tent of good eurypylus , entertaining him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain . when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans when they reached the shore they flew up into the heavens . he kept on striving continually either to enshroud some trojan in the darkness of death , or himself to fall while warding off the evil day from the achaeans . for all which may the grace of heaven be vouchsafed you in great abundance . thereon the son of peleus was furious , and his heart within his shaggy breast was divided whether to draw his sword , push the others aside , and kill the son of atreus turned aside and he missed his aim ; pisander then struck the shield of brave menelaus but could not pierce it , for the arrow struck him on the ear with a spear which he had left behind in his tent . he hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders , and then took up the shield of his son thrasymedes that was lying in his tent , wrapped in a thick cloud of darkness ; but the other gods seated themselves on the brow of the plain hard by our ships and by the wall ; they have lit watchfires throughout their host and deem that nothing can now check the terrible hands of hector , for jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won 
