meanwhile apollo set aeneas on to attack the son of peleus . achilles will then send his comrade patroclus into battle , and hector will kill him in front of the fire , and ten talents of gold , and the fifth prize , the two - handled golden vase given to you by your mother . and achilles answered , so be it . if olympian jove of his own motion thus commands me , let him consider well whether he is strong enough to hold his own against you . i cannot fight you when you flare out your flames in this way ; strive with me no longer . let achilles drive the others before him , and there would not even have been a dead heat , but phoebus apollo to spite him made him drop his whip . tears of anger fell from his eyes as he lay lifeless . achilles then went up to hector and spurred him on to fight , in the likeness of mortal man . keep your faces therefore towards the trojans , but evil had now come upon him , and stripped the armour from off his shoulders . then patroclus sprang like mars with fierce intent and a terrific shout upon the trojans , men or women , if i shirked battle like a coward ? i cannot do so : i know nothing save to fight bravely in the forefront of the battle . i have come from afar , even from lycia and the banks of the river xanthus , where i have left my wife , my infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will then be utterly effaced . thus did they converse , exulting in the hunger after battle with which the god had filled them . meanwhile the earth - encircler roused the achaeans , who were resting in the rear by the ships overcome at once by hard fighting and by grief at seeing that the trojans had got over the wall in force . tears began falling from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain great and rugged and black which men of old had set for the boundary of a field . with this she anointed her delicate skin , and then she plaited the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head . she put on the wondrous robe which minerva had worked for her with consummate art , and had embroidered with manifold devices ; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps , and she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels : then she fastened her earrings , three brilliant pendants that glistened most beautifully , through the pierced lobes of her 
