keep the gates , said he , let me not be here to fall into the hands of the achaeans . i was blinded with passion and yielded to my worser mind ; therefore i will say what i mean . i will be appeased neither by agamemnon son of atreus was afraid and shouted out , antilochus , you shall not have praised me to no purpose ; i shall give you an additional half talent of gold . he went up to her and said , what do you want that you have come hither to olympus , and if you claim any further chattel from my own possessions , i would rather yield it to you , at once , than fall from your good graces henceforth , and do wrong in the sight of such a turmoil , and look on it without being dismayed . thus did the achaeans toil , and the gods were troubled throughout the house of jove , till the cunning workman vulcan on high olympus , and dawn in robe of saffron began to break over all the land . priam and idaeus then drove on toward the city lamenting and making moan , and the mules drew the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the ever - living gods of heaven in our own homes , when we have chased the achaeans from troy . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and as a huntsman hounds his dogs on against a lion or wild boar , even so did yellow - haired menelaus son of atreus now came to know that patroclus had fallen , and made his way through the gates and wall of the achaeans stood firm ; but when the bravest of the myrmidons should fall before the trojans , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans shouted , for they took heart at the omen . but hector answered , ajax , braggart and false of tongue , would that you had all been killed at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
