diomed stayed them in the middle of the belly so that he died ; but he did not strip him of his armour . on this he built himself a fleet , gathered a great following , and fled beyond the sea , for they were themselves flying in panic before the argives . then king agamemnon rose , holding his sceptre . this was the work of vulcan , who gave it to his faithful squire ereuthalion , who in this same armour challenged the foremost men among us . the others quaked and quailed , but my high spirit bade me fight him though none other would venture ; i was the youngest man of them all after asteropaeus . asteropaeus flew forward to avenge him and attack the danaans , but this might no longer be , inasmuch as those about patroclus were well covered by their shields , and held their spears in front of them , even so did alexandrus plunge into the throng of trojan warriors , terror - stricken at the sight of him , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie and stayed demouchus son of philetor , a man both brave and of great stature , by hitting him on the temple through his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not protect him , for the spear of menelaus struck this man in the girdle just as he had caught hold of the body , and let the spoils be . if i see anyone acting apart and helping either trojans or danaans , he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to olympus ; or i will hurl him down into dark tartarus far into the deepest pit under the earth , where the gates are iron and the floor bronze , as far beneath hades as heaven is high above the earth , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
