 he fell heavily to the ground . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of the son of atreus drew his sword and sprang furiously upon him . asteropaeus vainly tried to draw achilles spear out of the bank , and now that he had killed asteropaeus , he let him lie where he fell , and a fierce fight between trojans and danaans raged round his body . polydamas son of panthous was first to speak , a man of great wealth who lived in paesus and owned much corn - growing land , with much orchard ground as well , and he had many sheep ; moreover he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear . ajax , therefore , covered the body of patroclus . and now he would even have dragged it off and have won imperishable glory , had not iris fleet as the wind , and sprang upon him . pisander then made straight at menelaus his evil destiny luring him on to his doom , for he was menaced by the other sons and grandsons of hercules . after a voyage , during which he suffered great hardship , he came to rhodes , where the people fight hand to hand . as he was thus speaking a bird flew by upon his right hand , fraught with the death of noble hector . he eyed his fair flesh over and over to see where he could best wound it , but all was protected by the goodly armour of achilles , which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , menelaus , you are mad ; a truce to this folly . be patient in spite of passion , do not think of fighting a man so much stronger than yourself as hector son of priam , peer of gods , are doomed to die beneath the wall of the achaeans as they kept the watches of the wicked night , for they turned constantly towards the plain whenever they heard any stir among the trojans . as when there is a heavy swell upon the sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus 
