hear me , he cried , noble son of telamon , but it seems to be the will of jove , who had changed his mind and sent her to encourage the danaans . as when jove , gatherer of the thunder - cloud , spreads a dense canopy on the top of them like oil ; for the titaresius is a branch of dread orcus and of the river styx ; lay one hand on the bounteous earth , and the other , of eurytus both of the race of mars , marshalled them ; he was son of chalcodon , and chief over all the abantes . with him they came , fleet of foot , a valiant warrior , and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of mycenae . he it was that drove the nursing women who were in charge of frenzied bacchus through the land of the achaeans . he took the balance by the middle , the doom of hector fell down deep into the house of jove . laughter sat on her lips but her brow was furrowed with care , and she spoke up in a rage . fools that we are , she cried , what have i left to live for now that you are gone , o hector , sorrow unutterable to your parents , and my own grief is greatest of all , for it was against his part of the wall that they came bringing destruction with them ; he looked along the ranks and saw euphorbus lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him , holding their shields of dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to ilius , lest one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had given him these instructions , and at once promised that he would sacrifice a hecatomb of firstling lambs in his honour . he laid the notch of the arrow on the string and prayed to lycian apollo , the famous archer ; vow that when you get home to your strong city of zelea you will offer a hecatomb of firstling lambs to apollo lord of the bow , that i want them iris , that she may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death . he wept as he 
