the achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships , for he was angry with her , and coming to a bad end . we will , however , since you so desire it , and let there be no keeping our spears in reserve , that we may take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , but meriones followed after and hit him with a spear in his left hand , and in his right a jagged stone as large as his hand could hold . he stood still and his heart was clouded with care . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , i know you want me badly , but i cannot stay with you any longer , for there is many a brave man hurrying down to hades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships in fulfilment of the behests of jove who kept spurring them on to new deeds of daring , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall be grateful to you ever after . close jove s keen eyes for me in slumber while i hold him clasped in my embrace , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body of hector . my mother , daughter of the old man of the sea . there shall the fishes feed on the fat of lycaon as they dart under the dark ripple of the waters so perish all of you till we reach the citadel of strong ilius you in flight , and thrust him from his chariot . after him came agamemnon and menelaus , sons of atreus , agamemnon sacrificed for them a five - year - old bull to the mighty son of saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges . she sat herself down before him , and with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe 
