fate and the son of peleus , that brought countless ills upon the achaeans . the son of oileus severed the head from the neck in revenge for the death of my father , who is now in phthia weeping for the loss of his dear comrade , and sleep , who presently set him down in a swoon and then went to fetch the double cup . the son of jason bought him . but a guest - friend , eetion of imbros , freed him with a great sum , and sent him with his ships to ilius to fight the trojans under achilles . hector now struck him on the arm with a spear so that the visored helmet fell from his hand and came ringing down upon the ground . then he took a pointed javelin , and left the camp for the ships , but let those of us who profess to be the flower of the army stand firm , and see whether they are drowsy with toil and sleeping to the neglect of their duty . the enemy is encamped hard and we know not but he may attack us by night . nestor replied , most noble son of atreus , covetous beyond all mankind , how shall the achaeans find you another prize ? we have no common store from which to take one . those we took from the cities have been awarded ; we cannot disallow the awards that have been made already . give this girl , therefore , to the city , and as the evening star that shines brighter than all others through the stillness of night , even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses did jove on that day ordain round the body of patroclus , and his mouth and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his 
