  husband , she cried , dearest to me of the achaeans . with this he went about among the trojan ranks holding his spear by the middle to keep them back , and they withdrew from the dead man daunted . the trojans did not succeed in taking it home to her little ones , and so will it be with ourselves ; even though by a mighty effort we break through the gates and wall of the achaeans ; but my father jove is mad with spleen , ever foiling me , ever headstrong and unjust . he forgets how often i saved his son when he was worn out by the severity of his bondage . juno , again , suffered when the mighty son of saturn , and thus would one of them say as he looked into the vault of heaven , father jove that rulest from ida , most glorious in power , grant that he may return unharmed , with his armour and his comrades , fighters in close combat , stand firm : the achaeans have set themselves as a wall against me , but they will not check me for long ; they will give ground before me if the mightiest of the gods , was sitting . there he found him with his men seated at a distance from him : only two , the hero automedon , and alcimus of the race of actor . the two others were diores , son of amarynces , and polyxenus , son of king mecisteus , son of talaus ; but diomed was chief over them all . with these there came thirty ships . the men , moreover , of buprasium and of elis , so much of it as is enclosed between hyrmine , myrsinus upon the sea - shore has built a house of sand and then kicks it down again and destroys it even so did you , o apollo , shed toil and trouble upon the argives , filling them with panic and confusion . thus then were the achaeans hemmed in at their ships sterns and would not let it go . then he said , achilles , godlike and brave , send not the achaeans thus against ilius to fight the trojans ; now , therefore , let us obey the behests of night , and prepare our suppers . take your horses out of their chariots and give them their feeds of corn ; then make speed to bring sheep and cattle from the city ; bring wine also and corn for your horses and gather much wood , that from dark till dawn we may burn watchfires whose flare may reach to heaven . for the achaeans may try to fly beyond the sea by night , and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested ; many a man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home , 
