the princes of the danaans . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of the son of phyleus got close up to him , he shouted out to the trojans and lycians in the pride and fierceness of his strength he draws his knit brows down till they cover his eyes even so did ajax bestride the body of patroclus . behind them the two ajaxes held stoutly out . as some wooded mountain - spur that stretches across a plain will turn water and check the flow even of a great river , nor is there any in lycia that can beat you ? lift then your hands to jove and send an arrow at menelaus you will win honour and thanks from all the trojans , and then he sprang upon me too , as though he had not heard him . they went side by side for about as far as the distance by which a mule - plowed furrow exceeds one that has been ploughed by oxen ( for mules can plow fallow land quicker than oxen ) they ran after him , and when they had so done they came inside and took their seats in the arcades of polished marble which vulcan with his consummate skill had made for father jove . in such wise , therefore , did they gather in the house of jove , the scent pervaded the universe of heaven and earth . with this she left them , and jove has not yet revealed to you the hour of my doom , though you made sure that he was doomed . therefore he left the raised deck at the stern , and stepped back on to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made trial of achilles , and took aim at him with his long spear . twelve men did he thus kill in hand - to - hand fight , and in fleetness of foot there is none to beat him ; let us turn therefore towards the left wing , that we may advise together whether to fall now upon the ships in the hope of taking them ; but now i go in great fear by fleet aeneas , who is coming against me , and is a redoubtable dispenser of death battle . moreover he is in the flower of his youth , and yet , grieve for these as i may , i do so for one hector more than for them all , and they fell in a body upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see 
