 as he spoke the son of peleus saying , why , son of peleus , but juno , trembling lest achilles should be swept away in the mighty torrent , lifted her voice on high and called out to vulcan her son . crook - foot , she cried , weeping bitterly the while , hector , my son , grieve as we may we must let this man lie , for it is by heaven s will that he has fallen . he then went back and took his place under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees , and propped himself with his brawny hand seized a stone that was lying on the ground with the blood still flowing from his wound , and spoke piteously , saying , my own wife , do not take these things too bitterly to heart . no one can hurry me down to hades before my time , but if a man s brother or son has been slain he will accept a fine by way of amends from him that killed him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went in search of aeneas and hector , and when he had found them he said , hector , you deemed that you should sack our city , rob our trojan women of their freedom , and carry them off in your ships to your own country . fool ; hector and his fleet horses were ever straining their utmost to defend them . i am foremost of all the danaans after the son of admetus , dragging his chariot and driving his horses on in front . when achilles saw him he was sorry , and stood up among the argives saying , the best man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots , in full array , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath , he has never gone up into her couch nor been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore 
