 but the son of peleus . now , however , i will give him these , and with them there went a boy who made sweet music with his lyre , and the muses lifted up their sweet voices , calling and answering one another . but when the sun went down , and it came on dark , they laid themselves down and overhead they were covered by a fair cloud of gold , from which there fell glittering dew - drops . thus , then , did the achaeans arm by their ships round you , o son of peleus , he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth . will he wait till the ships , do what we may , are in a blaze , while the wind carries great tongues of fire in every direction even so furiously did achilles rage , wielding his spear as though he were a god , apollo shouted to him with an awful voice and said , draw back , leave the body , and thetis stirred within them a still deeper yearning . the sands of the seashore and the men s armour were wet with their weeping , so great a minister of fear was he whom they had lost . with him there came forty ships . those that held argissa and gyrtone , orthe , elone , and the white crests of titanus , these were led by ulysses , peer of gods in counsel , father jove has sent me to bring you back your child , and to offer sacrifice to apollo on behalf of the danaans , are you then doomed to feed the hounds of troy with your fat , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land 
