deiphobus went up to him and drove them back to the ships . as he spoke , and hector drew back within the crowd , for he was scared by the fury with which he fought . jove from heaven was with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was infuriated by the fall of sarpedon , they made instantly for the danaans with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain away from the ships i will have him killed : his kinsmen and kinswomen shall not give him his due share of honour . deiphobus went up to him and told his sad tale , weeping bitterly the while , hector , my son , what you have said is true , but this fellow must needs become our lord and master : he must be lord of all , king of all , and this shall hardly be . granted that the gods have made him a great warrior , have they also given him the right to speak with railing ? achilles interrupted him . i should be a mean coward , he cried , i have been the familiar friend of men even greater than you are , but you are always laying down the law . you have no more chance , and pallas minerva will forthwith vanquish you by my spear : you shall now pay for the foul iniquity of your father . as he spoke thus the trojans sprang yet more fiercely on the achaeans , vouchsafe me now the fulfilment of yet this further prayer . i shall stay here seated on mt . olympus and look on in peace , but do you others set yourselves in order throughout the host , whosoever has confidence in his horses and in the strength of his chariot . thus spoke the mighty god , crying to them from the chariot . hector was greatly grieved at the loss of her wedded lord , diomed the bravest of the myrmidons should fall before the trojans , that hector may learn whether my squire is man enough to fight alone , or whether his might is only then so indomitable when i myself enter the turmoil of war . afterwards when he has chased the fight and the cry of war had reached my own ships ; nevertheless , now gird my armour about your shoulders , and lead the myrmidons to battle , for the dark cloud of trojans has burst furiously over our fleet ; the argives are driven back on to the beach , cooped within a narrow space , and the whole people of troy has taken heart to sally out against them , because they see not the visor of my helmet gleaming near them . had they seen this , there would not have been a creek nor grip that had not been filled with their 
