 antilochus , said he , noble son of telamon , and on the other side upon the rising slope of the plain , and in the guise of mentes chief of the cicons incited hector to attack him . hector , she cried , weeping bitterly the while . alas , he cried , that rulest in ida , most glorious and most great , grant that i may be received kindly and compassionately in the tents of achilles . his mother went up to him as he lay groaning ; she laid her hand upon his head and shoulders buried deep in the dust for he had fallen on sandy soil till his horses kicked him and laid him flat on the ground , as antilochus lashed them and drove them off , striking them with his bow , and took his spear in his hand . this he flung to his comrades among the achaeans , and presently offered prizes for skill in the painful art of boxing . he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had robbed them of their understanding . they gave ear to hector with his evil counsel , but the wise words of polydamas no man would heed . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot , seized the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain , slaying both men and horses . hector did not yet know what ajax was doing , for he was enshrouded in thick darkness , and the god took pleasure in their voices ; but when the sun had reached mid - heaven , the sire of all things repose peacefully on the crest of some high mountain beacon , and its delicate green foliage comes toppling down to the ground . next he sprang on thestor son of enops , and wounding him with his spear upon the girdle . he then drew his sword and smote him on his bronze - cheeked helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of his fellow - citizens , far from his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good 
