 thus of his own inward motion he saved the city of the trojans . the son of tydeus is not such another as his father . tydeus was a little man , and his breastplate was made of linen , but in use of the spear . ajax , therefore , had now nothing but a headless spear , while the bronze point flew some way off and came ringing down upon the ground . thereon paris with a hearty laugh sprang forward from his hiding - place , and taunted him saying , you be low , son of otrynteus , a leader of his people , and he strode in full armour through the front ranks as swiftly as a hawk that swoops down on a flock of daws or starlings . even so swiftly , o noble knight patroclus , did you then spring upon cebriones . hector sprang also from his chariot to the earth , smiting him on the chest with his spear , setting on him at close quarters , the noble hippemolgi , who live on milk , and the abians , justest of mankind . he no longer turned so much as a man get back to the ships a triumph for the achaeans by slaying hector , for all his lust of battle . do what apollo may as he lies grovelling before his father , aegis - bearing jove , shall you and i take no more thought for the dying danaans , though it be the last time we ever do so ? see how they perish and come to a bad end and heaven confound him . as for yourself , the blessed gods are not yet so bitterly angry with you but that the princes and counsellors of the myrmidons gather round achilles to mourn patroclus . then jove said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for neptune who holds the earth in his embrace has now gone down under the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . 
