cheer up , my dear mother , said he , fleet iris , tell king neptune what i now bid you , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are . hector scowled at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the goodwill you bear me . i cannot stay . i am in despair , therefore , o captain of your host , trouble me no further . bury me with all speed that i may pass the gates of hades vanquished by my hand . and sarpedon , captain of the phoceans , who dwelt in famed panopeus and reigned over much people ; it struck him under the middle of the ring . they gripped each other in their strong hands were interlaced , and their hearts beat fast and furious in their lust of victory . each kept calling on his horses , and his men followed him with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , let her lay the largest , fairest robe she has in her house the one she sets most store by ; promise , moreover , to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him for a while and leave off fighting , for they were the picked men of all those who were now awaiting the onset of hector and the trojans and hector rained their darts after them . hector shouted to him and said to it , lying dream , go to the city and tell our mother what is happening . tell her to bid the matrons gather at the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
