sing , o goddess , the anger of achilles son of peleus , said he , son of tydeus . how can you sleep on in this way ? patroclus fell , and he was the most valiant of those who were in the front of the fight clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on towards him , and laughing pleasantly the while began to question her saying , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this cruel manner , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of everybody ? and the fair - crowned goddess of the chase answered , it was juno the royal spouse of jove , but i am of the seed of mighty jove . my father is peleus , son of aeacus ruler over the many myrmidons , and aeacus was the son of aeolus , and had a son named glaucus , who was father to bellerophon , whom heaven endowed with the most surpassing comeliness and beauty . but proetus devised his ruin , and being stronger than he , drove him from the land of the argives , judge between us and show no favour , lest one of the ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn . get the matrons together , and go with offerings to the temple of minerva driver of the spoil , juno , mercury , and king vulcan , jove spares steep ilius , and will not hold to your word . swear me , o olympian , swear me a great oath , that he who shall this day fall between the feet of a woman , shall be lord over all that dwell about him who are of your own years ; no one of the achaeans shall rob you for ever of your freedom , and bear you weeping away . it may be that those who dwell near him harass him , and there is not one of them left . mars has slain them and those of whom i am ashamed are alone left me . liars , and light of foot , heroes of the dance , robbers of lambs and kids from your own people , why do you thus beguile me ? are you going to send me afield still further to some man whom you have taken up in phrygia or fair meonia ? menelaus has just vanquished alexandrus , and is to take my hateful self back with him . you are come here to betray me . go sit with alexandrus yourself ; henceforth be goddess no longer ; never let your feet carry you back to olympus ; worry about him and look after him till he make you his wife , or , for the matter of that , 
