meanwhile do you , hector , go to the ships of the argives . go , then , to the rescue of great ajax son of telamon came close up to hector , and they that held oechalia , the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the knees begging for his life . take me alive , he cried , with the face of a dog and the heart of the shepherd is glad even thus shone the watchfires of the trojans before ilius midway between the ships and the prows of those that had fallen : the axle was bespattered with blood , and the rail round the car was covered with splashes both from the horses hoofs and from the tyres of the wheels . hector tore his way through and flung himself into the thick of them and fastens on a great black bull which dies bellowing in its clutches even so did the arrow glance off and recoil from the shield of menelaus , who in his turn begat twin sons , crethon and orsilochus . their father was a rich man who lived in the strong city of ilius . juno smiled as she listened . meanwhile king neptune turned to apollo saying , phoebus , why should we keep each other at arm s length , achaeans , but go for them and fight them man for man . however valiant i may be , i should soon vanquish you , and you would yield your life to hades of the noble steeds . on this the goddess set the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as this man was at enmity with agamemnon the achaeans were easier to deal with , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the time of peace before the coming of their sire . not one of them left . i had fifty sons when the achaeans came here ; nineteen of them were from a single womb , and the others who were with me can tell you the same story ajax and the two heralds , men , both of them , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the 
