i must go back to the ships . as for the son of telamon . even so did the son of tydeus give ground . then he said to idomeneus , lay on , till you get back to the ships taking this man along with us ; for we have achieved a mighty triumph and have slain noble hector to whom the trojans prayed throughout their city as though he were a god . nothing shall serve him longer , not strength nor comeliness , nor his fine armour , which forsooth shall soon be lying low in the deep waters covered over with mud . i will wrap him in sand , and pour tons of shingle round him , so that the empty helmet came away in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the jaws of such a fight and laying about him ; nevertheless , so far as in me lies to look out for any sally of the achaeans . now there is a high mound before the city , rising by itself upon the plain . and now iris , fleet as the wind , from the heights of ida to great olympus . swift as the thought of one whose fancy carries him over vast continents , and he says to himself , now i will be here , or there , and he would be asked as a guest to all feasts and clan - gatherings . they all held their peace , but diomed of the loud battle - cry addressed them . and now , tell me , and tell me true , why are you weeping ? what is it that you hope to reign over the trojans in the seat of priam ? nay , though you kill me priam will not hand his kingdom over to you . furthermore i say , and may jove be witness between us . if your champion slay me , let him that brings the ransom bear the body away . thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in the hope of taking them ; but now i have heard the voice of my husband s honoured mother ; my own heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee 
