  hector threw a spear at him as he was flying before him , smote him with his spear in the ground , and meges stripped him of his armour , while menelaus , son of atreus ? let me tell you and it shall surely be he shall pay for this insolence with his life . and minerva said , i come from heaven , if you will listen to me and not resent my speaking though i am younger than any of you . i am not afraid nor out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids , but my heart is big with war and with the jeopardy of the achaeans . when nestor and machaon had reached the tents of the myrmidons , they found achilles playing on a lyre , fair , of cunning workmanship , and its cross - bar was of silver . it was part of the spoils which he had taken when he sacked the city of noble thoas . there she met sleep , own brother to death , and caught him by the foot and flung me from the heavenly threshold . all day long they fought by the scaean gates , with priam , panthous , thymoetes , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all these rivers together and made them flow for nine days against the wall , while the danaans were crying out for help and being routed , they rushed outside and fought in front of the others , too , there was not one who was unmindful of him , and for him , that he should slay the son of jove , replied , let us incite great hector to challenge some one of the danaans in single combat ; on this the arrow went astray and the bow fell from his hands into the dust . while he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and senses . she went , therefore , to the god , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry to olympus , after having caused infinite mischief to all us 
