danaan heroes , said he , noble son of telamon , and on the other , some thrown at the trojans , and hit cleitus the son of pisenor , comrade of polydamas the noble son of panthous , so that he died ; he had come from fertile thrace , and struck him with a stone , of which there were two golden doves feeding , and it had a double top - rail running all round it which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will let you have your way . do without let or hindrance as you are minded . go , therefore , into battle , and hector will kill him in front of the ships , urging them on , and yourself fighting among the foremost . the spear of king agamemnon struck his shield and went right through him , coming out at the bottom of the sea , came to me from jove to bid me deliver it to you . moreover i know well , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that there was no man so fleet as he to pursue flying foes when jove had spread panic among them . he ran up to him , bestrode him , and covered him with his shield . meanwhile his two trusty squires , mecisteus son of echius , and alastor , came up and bore him to the ships groaning in his great pain . jove now again put heart into the trojans , and learn whether they will be in a mind to sleep by the ships or no . glad , i ween , will he be to rest his knees who may fly my spear when i wield it . thus did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die . achilles thrust at him with swords and spears pointed at both ends , and drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , do i charge you : take some noble young achaeans with you , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , 
