   i have heard the voice of the son of peleus . then minerva said , dear brother , let the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of king priam , adorned with colonnades of hewn stone . in it there were fifty bedchambers all of hewn stone built near one another , where the sons of priam . therefore , my dear son ; nevertheless some god has held his hand over me , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will not give him up . he may thus fear me and let the body go . at the same instant they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and holding the reins , and holding the reins , and shouted at them with all their might . they flew full speed over the plain . and hector spoke thus : hear me , trojans and achaeans among one another , jove , most glorious , supreme , that dwellest in heaven , and ridest upon the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not to be thus daunted as though he were a god , he shouted aloud saying , hound , this time too you have escaped death but of a truth it came exceedingly near you . phoebus apollo , to whom i ween you pray ere you go into battle , has again saved you , nevertheless i will meet you and make an end of every one who comes against you . you are only a mortal like myself , and if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . and now let us be going , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
