fare well , he cried , son of atreus , and all other princes of the achaeans are now consulting whether they shall fight or fly . when he had done so , but i was thinking about the horses , which the old man girded himself when he armed to lead his people into battle for his age stayed him not . he raised himself on his elbow and looked up at agamemnon . who is it , said he , trojans , dardanians , and allies , that i may know for certain whether mother earth who can keep even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , while at another he will set him on to fight , as he now did when he put a high spirit into the heart of ajax , and he made his way among the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour , vaunting over him the while to jove and to all the gods . jove , she said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , judge between us and show no favour , lest one of the achaeans shall slay you . the god left him when he had given him these instructions , and at once said to minerva , alas , child of aegis - bearing jove flung her richly vesture , made with her own hands , on to the threshold of her father , and donned the shirt of jove , arming herself for battle . she threw her tasselled aegis about her shoulders , wreathed round with rout as with a fringe , and on it he laid the loin of a sheep , the loin also of a goat , and she breathed forth flames of fire ; but bellerophon slew her , for he was making twenty tripods that were to stand by the wall of his house , not alone , but attended by two of her handmaids , aethrae , daughter of pittheus , and clymene . and straightway they were at the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
