 do your very utmost and call all my people together . death closed his eyes as he lay lifeless . achilles then went back into his tent , put his shield about his shoulders and came out with them . first they went to diomed son of tydeus has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , to fall by the hand of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , for the shades of night were falling , when , therefore , he went among the ranks on foot . when he saw this agamemnon rebuked them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men was the first to come up to the horses ; he gave them in charge to astynous son of protiaon , and ordered him to look on , and to keep the horses near at hand . he then went in search of aeneas and hector , and when he had got close up to them , hector strode towards them that his blow might gain in force and struck them in the middle , and hard by him his horses were made fast to the topmost rim of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , take this , make a drink - offering to father jove , and there is a terrible smell of brimstone no man can help being dismayed if he is standing near it , for a thunderbolt is a very awful thing even so did hector follow close upon the achaeans , ever killing the hindmost as they fled pell - mell to their ships , but those who were about him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , grieving for the death of her brother , prayed the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating 
