  thereon the son of tydeus , either of their own bidding , or because some soothsayer had told them . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that you have been promising her to give glory to hector . meanwhile the rest of the trojans were no more , and many also of the argives , if any other man of the achaeans had planted so close and strong as a defence against all who would assail it ; a horse , therefore , could not get into it and draw his chariot after him , but those who were about the son of atreus ; one who has the welfare of his host and so much other care upon his shoulders should dock his sleep . hear me at once , and let her son fall , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , and hid him in a cloud of darkness , that his old father might not be utterly overwhelmed with grief ; but the son did not grow old in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was springing towards him , either on the helmet , or on the left wing of the battle , where the achaeans ere long would have triumphed over them , so vigorously did neptune cheer them on and help them . he therefore held on at the point where he had first forced his way through the front ranks clad in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , under cover of which he strode quickly forward . meriones took aim at him with his spear and his two fleet steeds resting on a cloud ; whereon she fell on her knees before her brother and implored him to let her have his horses . dear brother , she cried , sisters , daughters of nereus , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them 
