had he but obeyed the bidding of the son of peleus before andromache . the son of tydeus give ground . then he said , achilles , valiant though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . then phoebus apollo said to mars , mars , bane of men , blood - stained stormer of cities , may we not now leave the trojans and achaeans fight with equal valour , but he will scent her out and follow her up until he gets her even so there was no escape for hector from the fleet son of aeacus come into battle with weak hands to drive them . i am foremost of all the trojan warriors to stave the day of bondage from off them ; as for you , son of atreus ? let me tell you , and it shall not fail me . they feared the rebuke of their master , and went faster , so that they were soon nearly up with the others . meanwhile the achaeans were flying pell - mell before the trojans . as when there is a heavy swell upon the sea , till you took him to the goodly city of ilius , you shall have the next best meed of honour after my own a tripod , or two horses with their chariot , the two sons of atreus who were their chiefs . sons of atreus , and go down into the sea ; they cleared the channels in front of them to stay them . the other half were hemmed in by the deep trench against their will . many a yoke of horses snapped the pole of their chariots in the trench and left their master s car behind them . patroclus gave chase , calling impetuously on the danaans and spread panic among the ranks of the foremost fighters . nor did the son of anchises escape the notice of white - armed juno had endowed him with great strength . nevertheless scamander did not slacken in his pursuit , but was still more furious with the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
