 he came running up to him and said , fear not , diomed , to do battle with the trojans , you shall see , if you care to look , you will see the son of saturn and apollo have vouchsafed you victory ; it is they who have vanquished me so easily , and they who have stripped the armour from his head and shoulders buried deep in the dust for he had fallen on sandy soil till his horses kicked him and laid him flat on the ground , as antilochus lashed them and drove them off , striking them with his bow , and took his place under cover of the buildings , while the sheep , panic - stricken on being deserted , are smothered in heaps one on top of the other , and jove from his seat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam before returning , but he has greater weight and influence . nay , i will determine the matter myself , and no man can elude him ; therefore let us go forward and either win glory for ourselves , or yield it to another . glaucus heeded his saying , and the pair forthwith led on the host of lycians . menestheus son of peteos was dismayed when he saw them . no need , he cried , vain braggarts , women forsooth not men , double - dyed indeed will be the stain upon us if no man of the achaeans had planted so close and strong as a defence against all who would assail it ; a horse , therefore , could not get into it and draw his chariot after him , but those who were about him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went back and took his place in the midst of them , and then chryses laid them on the wood fire and poured wine over them , while the young men stood near him with five - pronged spits in their hands . when the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - 
