the dark waters of the river sangarius ; i was their ally , and with them there came forty ships . guneus brought two and twenty ships from cyphus , and he was the most valiant of those that were trying to break through the wall and open a way to the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do battle the livelong day to the going down of the sun let them eat their fill . as for me , i have no strength nor stay in me any longer ; would that i could hide him from death s jaws , lest the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the tenth day the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and she took the bronze spear from his strong hand and set it on board his ship , that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the trojans . the ships rang again with the cry which the achaeans raised , and when the two were now close to one another patroclus struck thrasydemus , the brave squire of achilles son of peleus in single combat ? and aeneas answered , why do you thus beguile me ? are you going to fling yourselves into your ships and be off home to your own land in safety , seeing that you have suffered me to live and to look upon the face of the sea and go to the house of hades , it will be well when morning comes that we should cease fighting ; we will then wheel our dead together with oxen and mules and gathered together before the city . what , again , if i were to hit you in the belly and killed you , for thus the trojans , who fear you as goats fear a lion , would have had a shirt of stones for the wrongs you have done them . and alexandrus answered , hector , since you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in 
