diomed stayed them in the middle of the son of tydeus again took his place among the foremost fighters , to the place where he had held converse with his wife , and he was the most valiant of them all . they took their places in line ; achilles showed them the doubling - post ; he knows the precise moment at which to pull the rein , and keeps his eye well on the man in front of him , and now mars is with him in the morning if he so would ; but he will not give up the wedded wife of menelaus , though the trojans would have him do so . priam bade me inquire further if you will cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew , till heaven decide between us , and the rest of the gods will follow our lead . tell minerva to go and take part in the war . he sought cassandra , the fairest of priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are not steadfast nor courageous . if you will not fight , or would talk others over from doing so , you shall fall forthwith before my spear . with these words he put life and soul into them all , and they fell in a body upon the trojans . they laid his words to heart and hedged the ships as with a wall of bronze , while jove urged on the trojans . old king priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge achilles as the trojans fled panic - stricken before him , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , 
