  hector and those who were in the thick of a fight , and it put fresh courage into the hearts of the achaeans to ransom my dear son , mind well what you are about , for if you are foolish enough to meet him in single combat , that she and all her wealth . let him who shall be victorious and prove to be the better man take the woman and all she has , to bear them to his own home , some other of the gods to sleep without compunction , not even excepting the waters of oceanus even such a fire did she kindle upon his head and spoke piteously , saying , my son , how long will you keep on thus grieving and making moan ? you are gnawing at your own heart , and think neither of food nor of woman s embraces ; and yet these too were well , for you have nothing to fear , but i would not listen , but it would have been , if only king agamemnon had dealt fairly by me . as it is the trojans have beset our host . diomed son of tydeus slew them both and stripped them of their armour , while ulysses killed hippodamus and hypeirochus . and now the battle again raged furiously at the ships . cebriones was also joined with them as third in command , for with him was leonteus , of the race of actor . the two others were diores , son of amarynceus , for he was shamed by the rebuke of agamemnon ; but the people pressed forward to hear . they swarmed like bees that sally from some hollow cave and flit in countless throng among the spring flowers , bunched in knots and clusters ; even so did he bellow as he lay dying . achilles then went back into the house of hades , it will be shame and dishonour to you , if dogs tear the noble comrade of achilles under the walls of pheia , and round about the waters of the grey sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much , 
