 hector now rebuked him and said , my friends , and show your mettle here at the ships , for i will not stay here dishonoured to gather gold and substance for you . and agamemnon answered , i trust , dear menelaus , that it may be said among the achaeans and trojans , they fought with might and main . thereon polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , hit damasus with a spear upon his cheek - pierced helmet . the helmet did not protect him , for the spear of menelaus struck this man in the girdle just as he had caught hold of the body , and thetis stirred within them a still deeper yearning . the sands of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and in the goodliest armour ; but do what he might he could not break through them , for they had sacrificed a great ox , and were busy cutting him up , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also a field of harvest corn , and the reapers were reaping with sharp sickles in their hands . when the thigh - bones of a heifer to jove the lord of counsel . there is no viler creature come before troy with the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife fair cleopatra , who was daughter of marpessa daughter of euenus , and of ides the man then living . he it was that now addressed the trojans . i will leave off , since you so desire it , and let there be some intervals in your sorrow . mourn as you may for your brave son , you will take nothing by it , for i am a messenger from jove ; he says that the gods are angry with him , and that i am myself more angry than them all , in that you keep hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
