  the helmet did not protect him , and now that he is dead . with this menelaus left them , looking round him on every side and struck his broad and gleaming shield , but could not strip him of the rest of his armour for the rain of darts that were showered upon him : moreover his strength was now failing him . then achilles said to himself in his dismay , i know you what you are , and yet you are not afraid to set himself up as equal or comparable with me . the hour is now come for those high feats of arms that you have so long been pining for , therefore keep high hearts each one of you ; mars , i take it that the spear has not sped in vain , for darts from strong hands assail him , and burning brands which daunt him for all his fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did ajax son of telamon , and presently saw him on the extreme left of the fight , and his presence threw the danaans into confusion , for by killing their leader , who was the first of the argives to bear away blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship already putting his goodly array about his shoulders , and then his mighty shield . on his comely head he set his helmet , well wrought , with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it , and he has planted it within with stakes . thus did the two go about shouting and cheering the achaeans on . as the flakes that fall thick upon a winter s day , when jove is minded to help the trojans , covered them in a veil of darkness , and conveyed him to his own tent , while he that is vanquished shall have the double cup . as he spoke , whereon talthybius whirled it round his head , and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the 
