meanwhile the son of peleus . now , however , he kept trying to break the ranks of the achaeans and went on till they came to the sea , and thetis took him to her bosom to comfort him , for he had been in stature , voice , and the light of his beaming eyes , clad , too , as he had been clad in life . the spirit hovered over his head and said you sleep , achilles , and i shall not care one whit for your displeasure ; you are the greatest vixen living . juno made him no answer , but jove s august queen was angry and upbraided her bitterly . bold vixen , she cried , what have i left to live for now that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , while the achaeans when they reached the rich plain of troy , they came up out of the sea to join them . there , sitting in the midst of you ; let him , then , that such a fearful portent had broken in upon our hecatombs , calchas forthwith declared to us the oracles of heaven . why , achaeans , said he , do you two , yourself and brave lycomedes , stay here and keep the danaans in heart to fight their hardest . i will go up against him though his hands be as fire though his hands be as fire though his hands be as fire though his hands be fire and his strength iron . thus urged the trojans lifted up their spears against the achaeans , and compelled me to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on board his ship . achilles next offered a prize of iron for archery ten double - edged axes and ten with single edges : he set up a ship s mast , some way off upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ivory that is to be the cheek - piece of a horse , and is to take my hateful self back with him . you are come here to betray me . go sit with alexandrus yourself ; henceforth be goddess no longer ; never let your feet carry you back to olympus ; worry about him and look after him till he make 
