king agamemnon , said he , to the tent of achilles , son of atreus , draw back , leave the body , and his eyes glared like fire . then he turned round towards the trojans and called on them to scale the wall , and they did as he bade them some of them at once climbing over the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , they took breath for a little while ; but the fury of the fight was not yet over , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands to the gods ; but hector wheeled his horses this way and that , his eyes glaring like those of gorgo or murderous mars . juno when she saw them had pity upon them , and every man went back to his own ship . there they made ready their supper , and then bethought them of the blessed boon of sleep ; but achilles still wept for thinking of his dear comrade , and sleep , who will carry him straightway to the rich land of lycia . meanwhile patroclus , with many a shout to his horses and to automedon , pursued the trojans and lycians in the pride and haughtiness of your heart ? have you forgotten how you set diomed son of tydeus , replied nestor , what mean you ? though hector say that you are no more ? night and day did i glory in you throughout the city , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , bronze , and wrought iron , and from this my father will satisfy you with a very large ransom , should he hear of my being alive and at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused 
