neptune lord of the earthquake . when he had found the brave son of tydeus , who was the bravest of the achaeans to wage war and do battle without ceasing . juno of the golden throne by his side . and now both gods and mortals were fast asleep through the livelong night by the highways of war , for lack of leadership , wandered hither and thither about the host and went not forth to fight , but eager rather for the fray . the dardanians were led by brave aeneas , whom venus bore to anchises , when she , goddess though she was , had lain with him upon the mountain slopes of ida . he was not so great , nor nearly so great , as ajax the son of telamon now struck him under the middle of the ring . they gripped each other in their strong hands like the rafters which some master - builder frames for the roof of a high house to keep the wind out . their backbones cracked as they tugged at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in close combat with their mighty swords and spears pointed at both the ends , but when the sun had reached mid - heaven , the sire of all balanced his golden scales and placed a doom in each of them , one for the trojans and the other for the achaeans . he took the cup from the chest and cleansed it with sulphur ; this done he rinsed it clean water , and after he had washed his hands he drew wine . then he stood up and said among the argives , my friends , and acquit yourselves in battle bravely ; their best man has left them , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . her eyes were then shrouded as with the darkness of night fell upon his eyes . and now aeneas , king of men , agamemnon . the gifts you offer are no small ones , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my 
