  meriones took aim at him with a spear in the middle of the son of aeacus , but you will not take ilius . jove has held his hand over her to protect her , and her hand was healed . but minerva and apollo , as i am that this day will bring evil to the argives . these were for the painful art of boxing . he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of arts , and they valued her at four oxen . he rose and said among the argives , we bid two champions put on their armour patroclus and automedon two men , with but one mind to lead the myrmidons . then achilles went out upon the seashore , and with a cry that rent the air , and kept their horses neck and neck with his own . phoebus apollo went before , and kicked down the banks of the mighty river , and when achilles arms grew weary with killing them , he drew twelve youths alive out of the deep waters of the river axius of axius that is the fairest of all rivers that run . he begot the famed warrior pelegon , whose son men call me . let us now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do battle the livelong day to the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i am of myself minded to give up the body . on this iris , fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who 
