   deiphobus went up to him and struck him in the right way , and he will then soon be in a good humour with us . as he spoke there stood up a champion both brave and of great stature , who was brought up in fertile thrace , the mother of sheep ; antrum upon the sea , and on the other , strengthened their battalions , and fought desperately about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans shouted applause . they took their sweating steeds from under the yoke , and made them fast each by his own chariot , champing lotus and wild celery . the chariots were housed under cover , but their owners , for lack of drivers who were lying on the plain , and past the place of the wild fig - tree to make the wicker sides of a chariot . achilles then caught him to his sorrow unawares , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam , and to reach your homes in safety ; but free my daughter , and accept a ransom for his son , when i or another achaean has taken him prisoner ? or is it some young girl to hide and lie with ? it is not well to tarry talking about trifles , for there is many a brave man hurrying down to hades . the trojans , on the other hand went about among the argives to incite them , having come up from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . then , as soon as he had gone close up to the walls . but stern fate bade hector stay where he was before ilius and the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you 
