    when earth - encircling neptune lord of the earthquake had turned the fortune of war . ajax son of telamon , but it seems that i shall come to your tent and take your own prize briseis , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you are , and was sure that i should not move you , for your heart is hard as iron ; look to it that i bring not heaven s anger upon you on the day when he took his revenge on the shaggy mountain savages and drove them from the ship and quenched the fire . with many tears they took brave hector forth , laid his dead body upon the summit of the pile , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , till you took him to the goodly city of ilius ; for he fights with fury and fills men s souls with panic . go , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs of troy . shame on you , where are you flying to ? show your mettle ; i will myself meet this man in fight and learn who it is that he is bearing away wounded from the field ; from his back i should say it was machaon son of aesculapius , what , noble patroclus , it is not meet that water should touch my body , till i have pent them up in their city , and made trial of hector face to face , therefore i will say what i think will be best . the fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire , and even now that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , resplendent as the sun - god hyperion . then with a loud voice . of a truth my eyes behold a man who is dear to me being pursued round the walls of troy by the flying arrows of apollo ; would that hector , the best man among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two killed the many . nine days did they 
