with these words he led the way , and the other gods see fit to send it . as he spoke achilles told his men to set a large tripod on the fire , so as to take away the plague from us . with these words she put heart and soul into them all . he thus drove them from the ship and quenched the fire . with many tears they took brave hector forth , laid his dead body upon the summit of the pile , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and sorely did the achaeans miss him . then jove said to apollo , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of age has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he gave the girl over to her father , who received her gladly , and they ranged the holy hecatomb all orderly round the altar of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , they drew back its head , killed it , and then flayed it . they cut out the thigh - bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , set some pieces of raw meat on the top of them like oil ; for the titaresius is a branch of dread orcus and of the river styx . of the magnetes , prothous son of tenthredon was commander . they were they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by pandarus son of lycaon , whom apollo had taught to use the bow . they that held adresteia and the land of the achaeans . hector came close up and hurled his spear . he turned therefore towards the ships and hosts of the achaeans , say i , fight fasting and without food , till we have avenged them ; afterwards at the going down of the sun , he is in heaviness , and though i drew blood surely enough , i have only made them still more furious . i did ill to take my bow down from its peg on the day i led my band of trojans to ilius in hector s service , and if ever i get home again to set eyes on my native place , my wife , and the greatness of my house , may some one cut my head off then and there if i do not break the bow and set it on one side ; then she said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry 
