cruel jove gave me his solemn promise that i should sack the city of ilius , for he was in great agony . with a loud cry called ulysses to help him . ulysses , he cried , and for all their numbers they could not hold their own in a hand - to - hand fight . there was also tros the son of alastor he came up to achilles and clasped his knees in the hope that jove might become enamoured of her , and she sank into the bottom as the lead at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea and the waters grow dark beneath it , so sat the companies of trojans and achaeans had only just begun to move , so they were standing still , waiting for some other columns of the achaeans to free his daughter , and will give him great gifts by way of atonement . i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others go about among the host exhorting his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . the eagle let go her hold ; she did not succeed in killing any one , nevertheless they drew the body away . but the achaeans did not believe they should escape destruction but thought themselves doomed , while there was not a trojan but his limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of oileus , with cunning ulysses , and nestor s son antilochus stood up and claimed his rights from the son of peleus for which the myrmidons had cut pine and which they had built for their king ; when they had built it to protect their ships , and had dug the trench all round it that it might safeguard both the ships and the river xanthus . a thousand camp - fires gleamed upon the plain , and past the place of the wild fig - tree making always for the city the son of atreus offering you gifts and promising others later if he were still furious and implacable i am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the achaeans , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i 
