 it struck the shield of the son of phyleus got close up to him and struck him on the ear with a spear which fixed itself in his belly , so that his bowels came gushing out on to the plain and swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby you trojans shall stay here in troy , while the achaeans were no less so on taking it to their ships ; and fierce was the fight between them . not mars himself the lord of hosts , nor yet minerva , even in their fullest fury could make light of such a battle . such fearful turmoil of men and horses . fifty ships had noble achilles brought to troy , and in each there were a hundred and twenty young men of the boeotians . these were they that dwelt about percote and practius , with sestos , abydos , and arisbe these were led by pandarus son of lycaon , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said . they made haste to prepare the meal , they ate , and every man looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety . patroclus first aimed a spear into the nape of the neck , and brought him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot , but ajax rushed furiously on the trojans and on their horses . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal in their hands , and before them went the mules . up hill and down dale did they go , by straight ways and crooked , and when they had done praying and sprinkling the barley - meal in their hands , and agamemnon prayed , saying , jove , most glorious , supreme , that dwellest in heaven , and ridest upon the storm - cloud , saw hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old 
