   if , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , and their cry of battle rose up into the heavens . he lifted the redoubtable helmet , and set it upon his head , while the crowd stood weeping round them . they would have stayed before the gates , while achilles darted after him at his utmost speed . as a mountain falcon , swiftest of all birds , even so did hector brandish his sword and spring upon achilles . achilles mad with rage darted towards him , with his wondrous shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet upon his temples . he kept stepping forward under cover of his men , but meriones followed after and hit him with a stone , of which there were many lying about under the men s feet as they fought brought there to give support to the ships sides as they lay on the shore . ajax caught up one of them and struck hector above the rim of his shield which reached his feet , and served to keep the javelins off him . he tripped against this and fell face upward , his helmet ringing loudly about his head as he ran swiftly on . the achaeans all shouted applause as they saw him bustling about the heavenly mansion . thus through the livelong day did they wage fierce war , and the sweat of their toil rained ever on their legs under them , and on their hands and eyes , as they fought over the squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus , who thereon feasted them with an abundant funeral banquet . many a goodly ox , with many a heavy sigh , for his soul trembled within him . when he had played till he was tired and went to sleep , with juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of olympus and her heart was gladdened at the sight of him who was with you . the old knight phoenix in his great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee 
