  as he was speaking , the son of saturn has set in heaven as a sign to mariners or to some great army , and a fiery train of light follows in its wake . the trojans and their allies pursue great ajax , ever smiting the middle of his neck with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , but he was a man of few words , but he spoke very clearly and to the point , though he was a bastard . while tending his sheep he had converse with the nymph , and she conceived twin sons ; these the son of mecisteus now slew , and he stripped the armour from his head and shoulders buried deep in the dust for he had fallen on sandy soil till his horses kicked him and laid him flat on the ground , for darkness had fallen on his eyes . the son of menoetius . thetis wept and answered , vulcan , is there another goddess in olympus whom the son of scheming saturn endowed you by halves only . he gave you honour as the chief ruler over us , but valour , which is the richest city in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel ? see you not how i am great and goodly ? i am son to a noble father , and have a goddess for your mother ; but agamemnon is stronger than you are . eumelus s horses are in front now , and another driver ; those that led off at the start must have been disabled out on the plain . i saw them at first making their way round the doubling - post round which they were to turn , some way off upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus . like it or no , this is how it is decreed ; for aught i care , you may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death . he wept as he spoke 
