diomed , son of tydeus , said he , we will indeed save you now , but they will not listen to both the contending hosts , and will give him seven excellent workwomen , lesbians , whom i chose for myself when he took lesbos all of surpassing beauty . i will give you strength of heart and limb to bear automedon safely to the ships from battle , for i shall let the trojans triumph still further , and go on killing till they reach the ships ; whereon night shall fall and darkness overshadow the land . as he spoke he set upon the trojans yet more furiously . ajax fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , and wounding him with his spear , holding his round shield before him , under cover of his men . as one who starts back affrighted , trembling and pale , when he comes suddenly upon a serpent in some mountain glade , even so did she fly weeping away , leaving her bow and arrows behind her . then the slayer of argus to escort him , and bring him within the tent of achilles son of peleus in single combat ? and aeneas answered , why do you thus beguile me ? are you going to send any of our comrades to exploit the trojans ? i greatly fear that achilles has cut off the retreat of brave hector and has chased him on to the plain to charge the trojans and destroy them . the chiefs disposed their men this way and that , whereas a man who knows what he is doing may have worse horses , but he will try to storm our city and carry off their wives and children . and king apollo answered , lord of the storm - cloud , grant that the brains of them who shall first sin against their oaths of them and their children may be shed upon the ground even as this wine , and let their wives become the slaves of strangers . thus they prayed , and pallas minerva . it is not so . agamemnon , son of atreus ? let me tell you , and it shall come true ; if any man will box with me i will bruise his body and break his bones ; therefore let his friends stay here in a body and kill you . to this menelaus answered in great anger by father jove , boasting is an ill thing . the pard is not more bold , nor the lion nor savage wild - boar , which is fiercest and most dauntless of all creatures , than are the proud sons of panthous . yet hyperenor did not see out the days of his youth when he made light of me and withstood me , deeming me the meanest soldier among the danaans . his own feet never bore 
