he led on as he spoke , and the other to that of the trojans , who , being fierce and fleet of foot , was their leader , and with him there came fifty ships . and they that held oechalia , the city of neleus , taking them within the city ; and the heart of the shepherd is glad even so the whole plain was dried and the flood stayed . as the north wind , even so thick did the gleaming helmets , the bossed shields , the strongly plated breastplates , and the ashen spears stream from the ships . the trojans were now driven back with a shout that rent the skies , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , shouting also without ceasing . as when jove , gatherer of the thunder - cloud , spreads a dense canopy on the top of them , and polydamas went up to hector and spurred him on to fight . they flew forth like the blasts of some fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and level it with the ground even so did menelaus son of atreus ; and nestor , looking first to one and then to another , but most especially at ulysses , was instant with them that they now cease fighting till we burn our dead ; hereafter we will fight anew till heaven decide between us , and the rest of the gifts , and laid them in the ship s hold ; they slackened the forestays , lowered the mast into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where menelaus had been wounded and was lying with the chieftains gathered in a circle round him . machaon passed into the middle of his neck with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , for they deemed that some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by 
