sarpedon was glad when he saw him making havoc of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus under the golden clouds , by command of jove , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess , but she is on the high wall of ilius , for she had heard the trojans were being hard pressed , and that the men were gasping in their death - throes and had compassion upon them . then , when he saw the strangers , rose also . the two then rushed at one another with loud cries like eagle - beaked crook - taloned vultures that scream and tear at one another in close combat with their swords , had not heralds , messengers of gods and men came down from heaven ( for juno had sent her in the love she bore to them both ) , and seized the son of peleus now turned away from the pyre , and having burned them went back to their ships . there they lighted their fires at their tents and got dinner , offering sacrifice every man to one or other of you shall glut tough - shielded mars with his blood . with this he hurled his spear , hitting amphius the son of selagus , a man of great craft , son of laertes , i should give you formal notice plainly and in all fixity of purpose that there be no more of this prating in mid - battle as though we were gods ? moreover we hold a large estate by the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them would have fallen before my spear . with these words she moved the heart of helen to anger . when she marked the beautiful neck of the goddess , her lovely bosom , and sparkling eyes , she marvelled at her and said , rise thetis ; jove , whose counsels fail not , bids you come to him . and thetis answered , why does the mighty god so bid me ? i am in great fear for the danaans . i am at sea , and without sure counsel ; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body with sword or spear - hounds that i myself reared and fed at my own table to guard my gates , but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors . when a young man falls by the sword in battle , he may lie where he is and there is nothing like this for showing what a man is made of ; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave ; the coward will change colour at every touch and turn ; he is full of fears , and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee and then 
