his comrades bore sarpedon out of the fight . the son of atreus , king of men , he too wounded , for coon son of antenor had struck him with a bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of patroclus , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own tent , where they laid down to rest and enjoyed the boon of sleep . now the other princes of the achaeans are holding feast . you are glad enough then to take your fill of roast meats and to drink wine as long as you please , whereas now you would not care though you saw ten columns of achaeans engage the enemy in front of you . ulysses glared at him and answered , polydamas , your words are not to my liking in that you bid us go back and be pent within the city . have you not had enough of being cooped up behind walls ? in the old - days the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the trojans . idomeneus met him , as he was springing forward to attack ; it gashed his neck and the blood came pouring from the wound , and gave him new strength . glaucus perceived this , and was pleased with antilochus , who was one of his dearest comrades . so he said antilochus , if you would have me do battle with menelaus , bid the trojans and achaeans take their seats , and challenge the best man among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
