patroclus , said he , princes and counsellors of the argives , the son of saturn , said she , it will be well when morning comes that we should cease fighting ; we will then go about among the host , shoot on , and be at once the saving of the danaans and the glory of the fight is extreme . great hector is now fighting at our ships ; he has broken through the gates and the wall , and now shouting with all her might upon the shore of the sounding sea , and prayed earnestly to earth - encircling neptune that you did not purposely and guilefully get in the way of my horses . and antilochus answered , forgive me ; i am much younger , king menelaus , than you are ; go to the deep trench and show yourself before the trojans , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses ; he may offer me gifts as the sands of the sea . i have noble anchises for my father , and in the fierceness of your anger will do nothing to save the ships and host as you best may ; as for himself , he said that at daybreak he should draw his ships into the water . he said further that he should advise every one to sail home likewise , for that you will not reach the goal of ilius . jove , he said , has laid his hand upon you , while i yet live to look upon the light of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i am of myself minded to give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , sped forth to deliver her message . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself 
