brave thrasymedes provided the son of tydeus for fear some other of the gods , and praying each one of them , so eager was he to hit someone from a distance or to fight him hand to hand . as he was leaving the field , and idomeneus having given orders to the physicians went on to his tent , for he was afraid when he heard what the god had said to him . achilles then sprang upon the trojans with a fury like that of the gods . but the river said to apollo , go , dear phoebus , to hector , for the hand of age has been laid heavily upon me . cruel jove gave me his solemn promise that i should sack the city of troy ; his father went also with him weeping bitterly , but there was no ransom that could bring his dead son to life again . paris was deeply grieved by the death of harpalion , who was his host when he went among the lycian captains , and bade them sit on seats covered with purple rugs ; then he said , achilles , valiant though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . the two sages , ucalegon and antenor , elders of the people , were seated by the scaean gates , with priam , panthous , thymoetes , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars . these were too old to fight , but gnawed at his own heart , and shunning the path of man . mars , insatiate of battle , killed his son isander while he was fighting the solymi ; his daughter was killed by diana of the golden reins , for she was angered with her ; but hippolochus was father to myself , and when he sent me to troy he urged me again and again to fight ever among the foremost and outvie his peers , while menoetius the son of actor spoke thus to you : my son , said he , are you thus speechless ? jove has sent us this sign , long in coming , and long ere it be fulfilled , though its fame shall last for ever . as the serpent ate the eight fledglings and the sparrow that hatched them , which makes nine , so shall we fight nine years at troy , but in the tenth shall take the town . and agamemnon answered , sir , you would prove me , that you question me about noble hector . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there , or 
