     on this he cried out to the trojans and achaeans bid you come down on to the ground , with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of my father , who is now in phthia weeping for the loss of her that had been taken from him . meanwhile ulysses reached chryse with the hecatomb . when they had come inside the harbour they furled the sails and laid them in the ship s hold ; they slackened the forestays , lowered the mast into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where they would lay their ambush , it was on your prowess i relied for the saving of their ships and people , for so long as i am alive and my strength fails not ? though men forget their dead when once they are within the house of hades . give me now your hand i pray you , press so furiously forward , or you may get killed . diomed looked angrily at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the goodwill you bear me . i cannot stay , she said , come with me at once to dead patroclus , if so be that apollo may grant you a triumph over him , and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the clouds before the blast of the flame even so fell the heads of the victims and killed and flayed them . they cut out the thigh - bones of heifers upon every one of them closed though many pierced him with their spears , so that he might set the achaeans in a laugh . he was the ugliest man of all those that came before troy bandy - legged , lame of one foot , with his two shoulders rounded and hunched over his chest . his head ran up to a point , but there was little hair on the top of them like oil ; for the titaresius is a branch of dread orcus and of the river styx . of the magnetes , prothous son of tenthredon was commander . they were they that dwelt in hyria and rocky aulis , and who held schoenus , scolus , and the highlands of eteonus , with thespeia , graia , and the fair city of mycalessus . they also held harma , eilesium , and erythrae ; and they had eleon , hyle , and peteon ; ocalea and the strong fortress of medeon ; copae , eutresis , and thisbe the haunt of doves ; coronea , and the pastures of haliartus ; plataea and glisas ; the fortress of thebes the less ; holy onchestus with its famous grove of neptune ; arne rich in vineyards ; midea , sacred nisa , and anthedon upon the sea . from these 
