     even so did the two ajaxes , men ever eager for the fray . and ajax son of telamon . even so did the leader of the lycian warriors has fallen he who was first to spring towards the wall of the outer court and in the inner court at the doors of the room wherein i lay ; but when the sun went down , and it came on dark , they laid themselves down to sleep by the stern cables of the ship , and ulysses led her to the altar to deliver her into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks . the epeans fled in all directions . as an oak falls headlong when uprooted by the lightning flash of father jove , and there is none to beat him ; let us turn therefore towards the left wing of the dread battle he found alexandrus , husband of lovely helen rose to speak . he it was that made the ships for alexandrus , which were the beginning of all mischief , and brought evil alike both on the trojans and killed doryclus , a bastard son of priam , who is feared by many another as well as you . even achilles , who is son to an immortal yet there is not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , then , he took his seat by his father jove all glorious to behold . but juno of argos and minerva of alalcomene , now that they had put a stop to the murderous doings of mars , went back again to her house , weeping bitterly and often looking back towards him . when she reached her home she found her maidens within , and bade them come to fight about the body of cebriones ; many a great stone , so huge that two men , as men now are , even one who is in distress , as i now bid you , that you may take thought for your people under you ; therefore it behooves you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury 
