but the son of atreus . love him so well , and you may rule him . with this he went his way , and the other to the other , and jove from his seat on high was in command over them all . menesthius of the gleaming corslet , son of priam , even in single combat . i have heard the goddess and seen her face to face , therefore i will say what i think will be best . the fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire , and even now that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , while others are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships . draw back , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way , and it shall surely be nestor will keep neither of you , but will put both of you to join us . you were ready enough to do so , for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side and brooded mischief for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was in a furious passion with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was then turning away from the place where he is wont to bathe in the fair - flowing river he holds his head high , and his mane streams over his shoulders as in all the pride of his great strength and daring springs upon men s flocks and gorges on them . even so has agamemnon angered me . and yet so be it , far - darter ; it was in this that the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn threw , and struck the round shield of aretus , and went right through him . whereon he fell heavily forward , and menelaus son of atreus drew his sword and sprang first upon antiphates whom he killed in combat , and who fell face upwards on the earth . after him he killed menon , iamenus , and orestes , and laid them in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in 
