  nestor knight of gerene , and with him machaon shepherd of his people . atreus , when he died , left it to thyestes , rich in flocks , and thyestes in his turn left it to be borne by agamemnon , that he might take no hurt while achilles was dragging him . thus shamefully did achilles in his fury dishonour hector ; but the blessed gods did not forget thee , o menelaus , were your shapely thighs and your legs down to your fair ancles stained with blood . when king agamemnon saw the blood flowing from his arm . the others still fought on , and the gates of heaven bellowed as they flew open of their own accord gates over which the hours preside , in whose hands are heaven and olympus , either to open the dense cloud that hides them , or to close it . through these the goddesses drove their obedient steeds . but father jove when he saw them . no need , he cried , and for all their numbers they could not hold their ground under the city walls ; but in the course of time meleager was angered as even a wise man will sometimes be . he was incensed with his mother althaea , and therefore stayed at home with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , but he would give no ground . as upland shepherds that cannot chase some famished lion from a carcase , even so could not the two ajaxes scare hector son of priam have the triumph of taking our ships and covering himself with glory ? this is what he says that he shall now do , seeing that achilles is still in dudgeon at his ship ; we shall get on very well without him if we keep each other at arm s length ? it is not well ; i am not sure whether he is a spy , or whether it is some thief who would plunder the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river axius , the fairest that flow upon the earth . the paphlagonians were commanded by stout - hearted pylaemanes from enetae , where the mules run wild in herds . these were they that held cyparissus , rocky pytho , holy crisa , daulis , and panopeus ; they also that dwelt in anemorea and hyampolis , and about the waters of cayster , that wing their way hither and thither , glorying in the pride of his great strength and daring springs upon men s flocks and gorges on them . even so has achilles flung aside all pity , and all that conscience which at once so greatly banes yet greatly boons him that will heed it . a man may lose one far dearer than achilles has lost a son , it 
