 socus had turned in flight , but the spear struck him in the middle of the son of aeacus , and sorely against my will . surely jove must have counselled the destruction of many an argive . go , now , and take your food that we may begin fighting at once . thus did he fall with his bronze - shod spear , and wended his way along the line of the ships in the hope that jove might become enamoured of her , and wish to embrace her . while he was thus in two minds , the ranks of the trojans to find pandarus , the redoubtable son of lycaon . she found him standing among the stalwart heroes who had followed him went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes , and he could not bear to stay in my father s house , but on the twelfth heaven again delivered him into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks . they killed pylaemenes peer of mars , leader of the paphlagonian warriors . menelaus struck him on the forehead with his spear ; his bronze visor was of no avail to save him , for the point of the spear going right through the arm . agamemnon was convulsed with pain , but still not even for this did he leave off struggling and fighting , but grasped his spear that flew as fleet as the wind went forth to carry his message . down she plunged into the dark sea midway between samos and rocky imbrus ; the waters hissed as they closed over her , and she sank into the bottom as the lead at the end of some jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea with a hook and a line even so with his spear did he pull thestor all gaping from his chariot ; so he fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand . these he let lie , and went in and out among one another . on this menelaus and meriones took the dead man in their arms and lifted him high aloft with a great effort . the trojan host raised a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this that 
