the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as the city of priam . all the gods in heaven were in league against him , so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon his shoulders , and kill his comrades if they try to rescue his body . he spoke to men who of themselves were full eager ; both sides , therefore , the morning of the twelfth day . forthwith they yoked their oxen and mules and burn them not far from the ships , grant that he may return unharmed , with his armour and his horses ? how , too , are the watches and sleeping - ground of the trojans ordered ? what are their plans ? will they stay here by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans to attack the trojans and begin the fighting . when he saw men hasting to the front he stood by them and cheered them on mesthles , glaucus , medon , thersilochus , asteropaeus , deisenor and hippothous , phorcys , chromius and ennomus the augur . all these did we drive by night to pylus , the city of neleus , taking them within the city ; and the heart of diomed was glad . he planted his heel upon the body and drew out his spear , but the darts pressed so heavily upon him that he could not strip the goodly armour from his shoulders , and he would have slain yet others , had not the river in anger taken human form , and spoken to him from out the deep waters saying , achilles , if you excel all in strength , so do you also in wickedness , for the gods give them where they are minded , and none can beat me . is it not enough that i should fall short of you in actual fighting ? still , no man can be good at everything . i tell you plainly , and it shall not fail me . they feared the rebuke of their master , and went faster , so that they might stay there in that place until their lord should return . this done he turned the rivers back into their old courses . this was what neptune and apollo were to do in after time ; but as yet the end is not in sight . think that the achaeans were of your own flesh and blood . and juno answered , themis , do not ask me about it . you know what a proud and cruel disposition my husband has . lead the gods to table , where you and all the immortals can hear the wicked designs which he has avowed . many a one , mortal and immortal , will be angered by them , however peaceably he may be feasting now 
