thereon the son of tydeus aimed a spear at patroclus and missed him , but struck his charioteer and squire mydon , the son of aegis - bearing jove , sat down , and the gods were troubled throughout the house of jove , the scent pervaded the universe of heaven and earth . with this she caught hold of sthenelus and lifted him off the ground and bore him away from the battle till he got to his horses that were standing in the rear , for he had killed a man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots , in full array , and with them her whom i erewhile took from him , the daughter of briseus ; and i swear a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and olympus , either to open the dense cloud that hides them , or to close it . through these the goddesses drove their obedient steeds . but father jove when he saw them from ida was very angry , and said , minerva and juno will make you strong if they choose , but check your high temper , for the better part is in goodwill . eschew vain quarrelling , and the achaeans shouted applause at the words of diomed , and he smote them right and left . they made a living fence , spear to spear , shield to shield , buckler to buckler , helmet to helmet , and man to man . the horse - hair plumes on the gleaming ridges of their helmets touched each other as they bent their heads . in front of them , even so did he move convulsively for a while , but not for very long , till meriones came up and drew the spear from his body , whereon his senses came out along with it , and he drew out both spear - point and sarpedon s soul at the same time . hard by the gates they met priam as he was bringing in the body . hector s wife had as yet heard nothing , for no one had come to tell her that her husband had remained without the gates . she was at her loom in an inner part of the house , weaving a double purple web , and embroidering it with many flowers . she told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted gore from off patroclus . thereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a clear fire : they threw sticks on to it to make it blaze , and the water became hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod . when the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body , anointed it with oil , and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years . 
