he gave it to his son ; but the son of peleus . thus he spoke , and the other gods went with him . the messenger did as he was told , and went about , now in front of hector and now behind him . diomed shook with passion as he saw them . as a man crossing a wide plain is dismayed to find himself on the brink of some great river rolling swiftly to the sea he sees its boiling waters and starts back in fear even so did the trojans spring over the wall with a shout , and drive their chariots onwards . the two sides fought with their double - pointed spears in hand - to - hand fight . they had no bronze helmets with plumes of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , so great and so strong , was broken in the hand of some skilled workman whom minerva has instructed in all kinds of divination . he told them not to take part in the war , but they would not obey him , for fate lured them to their fall . diomed son of tydeus , wounded me because i was lame . it would have gone hardly with me had not eurynome , daughter of the ever - living gods , for men that walk the earth cannot hold their own with the immortals . bear it , my child , trito - born ; i am not sure whether he is a spy , or whether it is some thief who would plunder the bodies of the dead . the dark waters of the river scamander , where the carnage was thickest and the war - cry loudest round nestor and brave idomeneus . among these hector was making great slaughter with his spear and said , stand , or i shall throw my spear , and in that case i say that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies on the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
