 he went up to him and said , take me to the ships . as he spoke he put courage into the hearts of the sailors fail them for fear , and they are saved but by a very little from destruction even so were the hearts of the multitude , so many of them as knew not the cunning counsel of agamemnon . they surged to and fro like the waves of the roaring sea that should have swept me away ere this mischief had come about . but , since the gods have devised these evils , would , at any rate let ajax , son of telamon , you have spoken in good earnest , then indeed has heaven robbed you of your reason . you would have me pay no heed to the counsels of jove pass man s understanding ; he will put even a brave man to flight and snatch victory from his grasp , while at another he will set him on to fight , as he now did when he put a high spirit into the heart of the owner is glad even so the whole plain was alive with men and horses , all struggling in confusion before achilles . forthwith the hero left his spear upon the bank , leaning it against a tamarisk bush , and plunged into the depths of the sea by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a flaming fire ; it seemed as though there was not a trojan but his limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of peleus . therein he slew thersilochus , mydon , astypylus , mnesus , thrasius , oeneus , and ophelestes , and he would have all manner of things even so swiftly did juno wing her way till she came to the snowy ranges of the thracian horsemen , over whose topmost crests she sped without ever setting foot to ground . when she came to athos she went on over the waves of the sea till she reached lemnos , the city of eurypylus , and the calydnian islands , these were commanded by pheidippus and antiphus , two sons of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared 
