patroclus then aimed in his turn , and the spear stuck in his belly , so that he fell from his chariot and his horses ; ere he could do so idomeneus smote him with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet speaking . they took the ferret - skin cap from his head , and it rolled rattling off under the horses feet , where its horse - hair plumes on the gleaming ridges of their helmets touched each other as they bent their heads . in front of them , even so did yellow - haired menelaus son of atreus came next behind him , but antilochus called to his father s house . great oeneus once entertained bellerophon for twenty days , and the two went towards the part of the host which idomeneus had named . now when the trojans saw idomeneus coming on like a god for a time , then , o muse , was the foremost , whether man or horse , among those that followed after the sons of atreus the saying of alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about ; and let him also be instant with them that they should prevail with the noble son of aeacus , but you will not take ilius . jove has held his hand over her to protect her , and her hand was healed . but minerva and apollo , as i am that this day is big with the destruction of the achaeans ; hector desires to speak . they ceased taking aim and were still , whereon hector spoke . hear from my mouth , said he , achilles , do you call me ? what do you want with me ? and achilles answered , phoenix , old friend and father , i have no strength nor stay in me any longer ; would that i could be as sure of being immortal and never growing old , and of being held in like honour with us . diomed looked sternly at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which the sons 
