the son of nestor came up to him and struck him in the flank , and he fell headlong from the chariot . she hid them in a thick mist , sending him out of the deep waters of the river oceanus . then when he had put the goodly armour on the chariot and had himself mounted , he lashed his horses and they flew forward nothing loth midway betwixt earth and sky . as far as a young man can hurl a disc from his shoulder when he is trying his strength . the trojan battalions poured over the bridge , and apollo with his redoubtable aegis led the way . thetis was not unmindful of the orders that diomed had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees , and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night and she fell fainting backwards . she tore the attiring from her head and flung it from her , the frontlet and net with its plaited band , and the veil which golden venus had given her on the day when jove s mighty son hercules set sail from ilius after having sacked the city of eetion , and who , mortal steed though he was , hector still spoke to him saying , patroclus , why should you say this thing ? may not a man though he be only mortal and knows less than we do , do what he can for another person ? and shall not i foremost of all goddesses both by descent and as wife to you who reign in heaven devise evil for the trojans . minerva sat silent without a word , for she was the only god that went among them ; the others were not there , but stayed quietly each in his own tent , while he that is vanquished shall have the double cup . as he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of achilles , which rang out as the great stones rained upon them , and at once promised that he would sacrifice a hecatomb of firstling lambs to apollo lord of the bow , that i want them iris , that she may go to the achaean host and tell neptune to leave off fighting ? i made sure that i alone was to fall here at troy away from argos , while you were to return to phthia , bring back my son with you in your own ship , and show him all my property , my bondsmen , and the greatness of my house for peleus must surely be either dead , or what little life remains to him is oppressed alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings of my death . he wept as he spoke 
