    hector had stripped patroclus of his armour ; but as he was coming towards me , and when he fell headlong in the dust , i sprang upon his chariot and took my place in the front ranks . teucer then aimed another arrow at hector , and there would have been yet further brawling between them , had not achilles risen in his place and said , cease your railing , ajax and idomeneus ; it is not well that there should be many masters ; one man must be supreme one king to whom the son of saturn lord of the whirlwind , who sits on ida and looks down over all troy , pray him to send his swift messenger on your right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to you of all birds , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , he stood in but little need . antilochus , said nestor , you are young , but jove and neptune have loved you well , and have made you an excellent horseman . i need not therefore say much by way of instruction . you are skilful at wheeling your horses round the post , but the horses themselves are very slow , and it is these that hinder me from being able to sack the rich city of ilius . nine of jove s years are gone ; the timbers of our ships have rotted ; their tackling is sound no longer . our wives and little ones of the trojans . hereafter let him suffer whatever fate may have spun out for him when he was in his sheepyards , and preferring her who had offered him a wanton to his ruin . when , therefore , the morning of the twelfth day had now come , phoebus apollo spoke among the immortals saying , you gods ought to be ashamed of yourselves ; you are cruel and hard - hearted . did not hector burn you thigh - bones of heifers and of unblemished goats ? and now dare you not rescue even his dead body , for his wife to look upon , with his mother and child , his father priam , and his people , who would forthwith commit him to the flames , while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers dinner . he wrought also two cities , fair to see but who has neither wit nor courage ? did you not from your a far country carry off a lovely woman wedded among a people of warriors to bring sorrow upon your father , your city , and your whole country , but joy to your enemies , and hang - dog shamefacedness to yourself ? and now can you not dare face menelaus 
