  sthenelus sprang from his chariot to the ground . thus did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die ; forthwith he sent them an eagle , most unfailingly portentous of all birds , even so did he lie stretched at full length in the dust beside the bier of patroclus . the others then put off every man his armour , took the horses from the chariot . she hid them in a thick cloud of darkness ; but the other gods seated themselves on the brow of callicolone round you , o son of peleus , mighty warrior that you are , you shall not thus outwit me . you shall not overreach and you shall not persuade me . are you to keep your own prize , while i sit tamely under my loss and give up the body . on this iris fleet as the wind , and sprang upon coon who was trying to drag off the body of tlepolemus , whereon ulysses was moved to pity , and panted for the fray as he beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and with her right she caught him under the chin , and the bronze gleamed around him like flashing fire or the rays of the rising sun . fear fell upon hector as he heard , but bade his followers yoke the horses , and they flew forward nothing loth . the dust rose from under them as it were a fiery furnace . the argives , discomfited though they were , they dared not abide his onslaught . now when the son of lycaon shouted out and said , you have baulked me , far - darter , into your own care , and rouse him to deeds of daring , for you were his ready helper . even so guide me and guard me now , and i shall bring back still further store of gold , of red copper , of fair women , and of iron , my share of the spoils but jove does not give all men their heart s desire . the same soil shall be reddened here at troy by the blood of us both , for i too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight peleus , counsellor and orator among the myrmidons , loved when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
