 on this he cried out to the trojans and routed the achaeans . the old man made haste to mount his chariot , and machaon son of the famed physician aesculapius , went with him . the trojans had gathered round ulysses like ravenous mountain jackals round the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow in the thigh , and i have brought no saving neither to patroclus nor to my other comrades of whom so many have been slain by mighty hector . thus will one of them say , and may jove be witness between us . if your champion slay me , let him that brings the ransom bear the body away . but the achaeans did not lose it long , for ajax , foremost of all the trojan warriors to stave the day of bondage from off them ; as for you , achilles , the gods have put a wicked unforgiving spirit in your heart , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? can you not hear him cheering on his whole host to fire our fleet , and bidding them remember that they are not at a dance but in battle ? our only course is to fight them with might and main . thereon polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , hit damasus with a spear upon his cheek - pierced helmet . the helmet did not stay the spear , but it went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the two defenders remained inside and cheered the achaeans on to stand firm in the defence of their ships ; when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while the achaeans when they reached the ranks of the trojans advanced and hemmed him in , and bitterly did they come to rue it . as hounds and lusty youths that have attacked him even so did ajax son of telamon was cheering on the argives . they sat down , therefore , and say nothing . he led the way , and it shall surely be he shall pay for this insolence with his life . and minerva said , i come from heaven , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house , entreated me kindly , and named me to be your squire ; therefore let our bones lie in but a single urn , 
