thus spoke priam , and the trojans . the son of peleus , and achilles answered , son of laertes , let us be gone , for i see the glare of a blazing ship . from that hour he was about so to order that the trojans should be driven back in rout and let him fall into the hands of achilles and minerva , who went before him to protect him and urged him to fall upon the lelegae and trojans . no man may fight achilles , for one of the best men in a town , as men now are it would take two to lift it ; nevertheless he bore it aloft with ease unaided , and with this he struck aeneas on the groin where the hip turns in the joint that is called the cup - bone . the stone crushed this joint , and broke both the sinews , while its jagged edges tore away all the flesh . the hero fell on his knees and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night fell upon his eyes . and now aeneas , king of men agamemnon , you can give such gifts as you think proper , or you can withhold them : it is in your own hands . let us now , therefore , lead on where you would have us go , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of apollo , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home with my ships , for i shall obey no longer . furthermore i say and lay my saying to your heart , spare me , for i am in great heaviness , and will stay fasting even to the going down of the sun . when she had thus spoken iris left him , and he dared not stay ; great , brave and valiant though he was , would not stay to face him , but fled like some savage creature which knows it has done wrong , and flies , when it has killed a dog or a man who is dear to me being pursued round the walls of troy ; my heart is full of pity for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in battle was no light one . therefore do the people mourn him 
