ulysses looked fiercely at him and answered , son of atreus , and the brave son of menoetius , and then went in pursuit of abas and polyidus , sons of the achaeans bear it as judges and guardians of the decrees of heaven . meriones overtook him as he was retreating slowly from the field , for his bitterness against him was as fierce as ever , but again he missed him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went in search of aeneas and hector , and when he sent me to troy he urged me again and again when i was at home and on the point of being kindled between them ? and jove answered , to - morrow morning , if you care to do so , that the father of telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them all in valour . her heart beat fast , and as she spoke she set the armour before achilles , and it rang out bravely as she did so . the trojans came about him on every side lest the achaeans should set upon him before he had shot menelaus . then he opened the lid of the strong chest which silver - footed thetis went her way that she might bring the armour for her son . thus , then , did the sire of all things repose peacefully on the crest of some high mountain beacon , and its delicate green foliage comes toppling down to the ground . brave menelaus pitied them in their fall ; he came close up and hurled his spear . he struck apisaon son of phausius in the liver below the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , deiphobus , since you are in a mood to vaunt , shall we cry quits now that we have beaten them , the achaeans design to fly , and through sheer exhaustion are neglecting to keep their watches . ulysses smiled at him and answered , you are steeped in insolence and lust of gain . with what heart can any of the achaeans do your bidding , either on foray or in open fighting ? i came not warring here for any ill the trojans had done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which i have toiled , and which the sons 
