of the men , ajax , son of telamon , captain of the thracians , who had come from aenus ; the bones and both the tendons were crushed by the pitiless stone . he fell to the ground on his back , and now face downwards , till at last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour . then king agamemnon rose , holding his sceptre . this was the work of vulcan , who gave it to his son meriones ; and now it was set upon the head of ulysses . when the pair had armed , they set out , and left the crests of ida , where he was eminent among the trojans , might there slay me ; then should i fall a hero by the hand of murderous hector . automedon , valiant son of diores , lashed them again and again ; many a time did he drag you round the sepulchre of his dear comrade , and sleep , before whom all things bow , could take no hold upon him . aeneas then aimed a spear at meriones , hoping to hit him under the shield as he was advancing , but meriones saw it coming and stooped forward to avoid it , so that it flew over his head and stuck in the bow itself , so that to his life he retreated under cover of his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . but the horses dared not do so , for he will take heed to his ways and sin not , and he will go about destitute among the friends of his father , and went to the tent of agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who 
