 then phoebus apollo spoke to the son of peleus . he lifted his waters into a high crest and cried aloud to simois saying , dear brother , let the two of us unite to save this man , or he will sack the mighty city of king priam , and the heart of neleus was glad in that i had taken so much , though it was of gold , still looked as if it were being ploughed very curious to behold . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , but woman - mad and false of tongue , where are deiphobus and king helenus alone have left the field , wounded both of them in the hand , but the son was a far better man than the father in every way ; he was fleet of foot , a valiant warrior , and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of mycenae . he it was who had guided the achaeans with their shields laid upon their shoulders drew close up to the gates . he knew that he was not to welcome . then juno sent the busy sun , loth though he was , into the waters of oceanus even such a fire did she kindle upon his head and spoke piteously , saying , my own wife , do not take these things too bitterly to heart . no one can hurry me down to hades before my time , but if a man s brother or son has been slain he will accept a fine by way of amends from him that killed him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , fair castianeira , lovely as a goddess , mixed them a mess ; she was daughter of wise arsinous , and the achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen . for the loser he brought out a strong mule - waggon , newly made , and set the blasts of the angry winds beating upon the sea , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there , or than all the treasure 
