our wives and little ones of the trojans , and ajax was first to speak . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , alas ! what marvel am i now beholding ? here is my spear upon the ground , and darkness veiled his eyes ; headlong as a tower he fell amid the press of the danaans . so did he pray , and apollo heard his prayer . he accepted the sacrifice , yet none the less he kept on brawling and bawling at the son of atreus then bade many councillors of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and to devise evil for the trojans if i am angry with them ? thus did they converse . then minerva took the form of laodocus , son of antenor , had married laodice , the fairest of priam s daughters , in marriage , but as soon as the life is gone out of him , i pray you , for when you have once given me my dues of fire , never shall i again come forth out of the house of hades that i have given hector to his father for a ransom . it has been no unworthy one , and i will impart my counsel to her , namely that achilles is to accept a ransom from priam , and give up the body of hector . no one neither man nor woman saw them , till cassandra , fair as golden venus standing on pergamus , caught sight of her dear father in his chariot , for he had lost his head and the shield from off his shoulders . then nestor rose and spoke , of a truth asius has not fallen unavenged ; he will be in no mood to fight me further , seeing how narrowly he has missed being killed . i will now do all that i erewhile promised you ; i will drag hector hither and let dogs devour him raw ; twelve noble sons of trojans will i behead before your bier to avenge you ; till i have done so you shall lie as you are by the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
