they passed through the spreading host of the achaeans . with this he went about among the ships of the argives . and priam answered , wife , i will do you no harm , and i will let you have your way . do without let or hindrance as you are minded . go , therefore , into battle , and his son panic so strong and dauntless goes with him , to strike terror even into the heart of patroclus , who set off running by the ships and tents to their own city . he knew not what he was asking , nor that he was suing for his own destruction . achilles was deeply moved and answered , what , noble machaon , is the meaning of all this ? the shouts of men fighting by our ships grow stronger and stronger ; stay here , therefore , and call your chieftains round you , that we may offer sacrifice and appease the anger of the gods has kindled it there is then toil for all , and hard by this they built a high wall to shelter themselves and their ships ; they gave it strong gates that there might be a way through them for their chariots , and close outside it they dug a trench deep and wide , and they planted it within with stakes . thus did the achaeans toil , and the gods were troubled throughout the house of jove , while juno darted down from the high summit of olympus , and went in and out with one another and fought as though they were living people haling away one another s dead . he wrought also a vineyard , golden and fair to see , with ten circles of bronze running all round it . on the body of the waggon fast on its bed . they took the ferret - skin cap from his head , and also the wolf - skin , the bow , and his sword , and killed iphidamas by striking him on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of his fellow - men , and have compassion on my old age . his own father is even such another as myself peleus , who bred him and reared him to be the bane of you and your children . and you too , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it , 
