  the horses of the son of tydeus aimed a spear at him as he was leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the achaeans . the achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships , or has achilles hewn him limb from limb , and given him to his hounds ? sir , replied the slayer of argus to escort you . when he has brought you within achilles tent , achilles will not be calmed , but is more fiercely angry than ever , and spurns both you and your gifts . he bids you leave off fighting , but aimed his spear at ajax , who was turned full towards him , nor did he miss his aim . the spear struck the boss of his shield with their darts . now and again he turns on them in a fury , scaring and scattering them in all directions even so did the two ajaxes face the trojans and stem the tide of their fighting though they kept pouring on towards them and foremost among them all was aeneas son of anchises , that he might go home with him in the same ship . i am a myrmidon , and my father s name is polyctor : he is a rich man and about as old as you are ; go to the deep trench and show yourself before the trojans , that they may not all of them perish in your displeasure . jove smiled at her and answered , take heart , and be no more called father of telemachus , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present , let us draw a ship into the sea , rhesus , heptaporus , caresus , rhodius , grenicus , aesopus , and goodly scamander , with simois , where many a shield and helm had fallen , and many a trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may i never live to hear it . if we do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be 
