nor did the son of nestor fly , and the trojans . the old man marvelled at him and said , hector son of priam , peer of murderous mars . and with these there came forty ships . such were the chiefs and princes of the achaean host , and shook his head to show that no man was to aim a dart at hector , lest another might win the glory of having hit him and he might himself be only second ; he therefore sprang forward with his spear and his two fleet steeds resting on a cloud ; whereon she fell on her knees before her brother and implored him to let her have his horses . dear brother , he cried , keep you at arm s length ; therefore i have spears , bossed shields , helmets , and burnished corslets . then meriones said , i too in my tent and at my ship have spoils taken from the trojans , but father jove heeded them not : he held aloof from all , and sat apart in his all - glorious majesty , looking down upon the city of the proud trojans . fool , there will be trouble enough yet before it , for there is one abiding at their ships who is never weary of battle , and sped forward as fast as his limbs could take him . on they flew along the waggon - road that ran hard by under the wall , past the lookout station , and past the weather - beaten wild fig - tree to make the wicker sides of a chariot . achilles then caught him to his sorrow unawares , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , but keep your watches and be wakeful every man of you . if i were as much better a man than you , as i am that this day is big with the destruction of the achaeans ; but my father jove is mad with spleen , ever foiling me , ever headstrong and unjust . he forgets how often i saved his son when he was worn out by the severity of his bondage . juno , again , suffered when the mighty son of saturn surely promised that we should succeed , when we argives set sail to bring death and destruction upon the trojans . moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey - bearded men are to camp upon its heaven - built walls . let the women each of them light a great fire in her house , and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is outside . see to it , brave trojans , as 
