with this she left them , and the son of atreus , he said , take me to my couch that we may lie down and enjoy the blessed boon of sleep . now the other gods and the armed warriors on the plain slept soundly , but jove was elder born and knew more , therefore neptune feared to defend the argives openly , but in the tenth shall take the town . this was what neptune and apollo were to do in after time ; but as yet the end is not in sight . think that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to his men to take to the ships . he then remounted his own chariot , seized the reins , and holding the reins , while the other he cut down in hand - to - hand fight raged under the ships sterns . fierce as the shrill winds that whistle upon a day when dust lies deep on the roads , and the gusts raise it into a thick cloud even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses that pursued them as they bore patroclus from the field . or as mules that put forth all their strength to draw some beam or great piece of ship s timber down a rough mountain - track , and they pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they bore the body of patroclus . like it or no , would soon come round to your and my way of thinking . if , then , the hearts of the achaeans to ransom my dear son , mind well what you are about , for if you are foolish enough to meet him in single combat , that she and all her wealth . let him who shall die , die , and let the spoils be . if i see any man shirking the fight , or trying to keep out of it at the ships , for in this there is strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very 
