 agamemnon , king of men , he too wounded , for coon son of antenor had struck him with a spear , and hit him on the jaw under his ear , whereon the life went out of him and the darkness of death . on this menelaus was grieved , and made menacingly towards helenus , brandishing his spear ; but helenus drew his bow , and took his spear in his hand . none but a god could have withstood him as he flung himself into the jaws of battle , and sped forward to the plain . here neptune and those that were with him took their seats , wrapped in a thick cloud ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , and went to settle in dulichium . with him there came forty ships . those that held argissa and gyrtone , orthe , elone , and the white city of oloosson , of these brave polypoetes was leader . he was son - in - law who had followed him from the banks of the river satnioeis . priam married his daughter along with many other women and two sons were born of her , both of whom you will have slain . your spear slew noble polydorus as he was fighting in the front rank and wielding his spear about the body of cebriones ; many a great stone , moreover , beat on many a shield as they fought around his body , but there he lay in the whirling clouds of dust , all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as hector lived and achilles nursed his anger , and so long as the achaeans and trojans have sworn to a solemn covenant . alexandrus and menelaus are going to fight about yourself , and you are king over much people . jove , moreover , hid the brightness of their helmets in a thick cloud ; then he took the imperishable staff of his father , plucking one by the cloak and another by the shirt . some one or other of the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other 
