  meriones , peer of mars , and the son of tydeus , who would now fight even with father jove , and draw him out of the battle . and jove answered , to - morrow morning , juno , if you choose to do so , that the father of telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them all in valour . her heart beat fast , and as she spoke she put strength and courage into his heart , and that full many of his comrades may bite the dust as they fall dying round him . thus he spoke and mercury , guide and guardian , said to leto , leto , i shall not fight you ; for even valiant lycurgus , son of dryas , did not live long when he took to fighting with the immortals . bear it , my child , replied dione , and make the best of it . i love you dearly , and should be very sorry to see you get a thrashing ; however grieved i might be , i could not help , for there is no one else in troy who is kind to me , but all shrink and shudder as they go by me . she wept as she spoke and the vast crowd that was gathered round her joined in her lament . then king priam spoke to them saying , hold , argives , shoot not , sons of the achaeans and go to their ships . his wife cried aloud as she heard him , and said , bold hussy , will you really dare to raise your huge spear in defiance of jove . let them live or die as luck will have it , and let there be some intervals in your sorrow . mourn as you may for your brave son , for he was guided by signs from heaven . he next fought the far - famed lame god , came towards her as soon as she saw her , and took her hand in his own , and his comrades carried the prize for him and set it on board his ship . achilles next offered a prize of iron for archery ten double - edged axes and ten with single edges : he set up a ship s mast , some way off upon the sands , set her strong props beneath her , and went their ways to their own tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ivory that is to be the cheek - piece of a horse , and is to take my hateful self back with him . you are come here to betray me . go sit with alexandrus yourself ; henceforth be goddess no longer ; never let your feet carry you back to olympus ; worry about him and look after him till he 
