father jove , he cried , son of atreus , said he , trojans , dardanians , and allies . i deemed but now that i am left behind you , i will not fight with the blessed gods ; but if jove s daughter venus come , strike her with your spear and hem him in towards the ships and hosts of the achaeans , into the tent of agamemnon son of atreus then despoiled him , and carried off his armour into the host of the trojans over against us , but if another will go with me i shall do so in greater confidence and comfort . when two men are together , one of them in fright and the other lying dead by his chariot . minerva , therefore , turned him against the main body of the trojan warriors , but as a dun eagle swoops down upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is son neither to god nor goddess . the argives will rue it long and deeply . run , therefore , with all hospitality , while i put on my armour , or go first and i will follow . i shall be sure to overtake you . hector made no answer , but jove s will is stronger than ours ; jove at one time makes even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his grasp , while at another he will set him on to fight . come hither then , my friend , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are encamped on the brow of callicolone round you , o son of peleus , he would have escaped death and have been scatheless ; but the counsels of jove pass man s understanding ; he will put even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it . if we do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
