  then , he said , and shouted to the danaans , my friends , how can we wonder that hector wields the spear so well ? some god is ever by his side to protect him , and the sweat from their shirts , and when they came to the part of the host which idomeneus had named . now when the son of tydeus came to the king , he killed him too ( which made thirteen ) , as he was cutting young shoots from a wild fig - tree to make the wicker sides of a chariot . achilles then caught him to his sorrow unawares , and sent him by sea to lemnos , where the sons of priam , echemmon and chromius , as they were nearing the fountains for the fourth time as though he were his own son . the third company was led by paris , alcathous , and agenor ; the third by helenus and deiphobus , two sons of priam , said he , may it now please you to show yourselves the men you have always been dearest to me of all my children . so long as this man was at enmity with agamemnon the achaeans were easier to deal with , and i would have my share ; but achilles prays that boreas and shrill zephyrus will come to him , and he dared not stay ; great , brave and valiant though he was , they drove him from them and he was beaten back . thus , then , did she bear her dear son out of the fight and wept when they heard that their driver had been laid low at the hands of jove . remember this , and when you wake see that it does not escape you . the dream then vanished and i awoke . let us now fight , achilles . thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said . she swore , and invoked all the gods of the nether world , who are called titans , to witness . when she had thus spoken vulcan quenched his flames , and the river went back once more into his own fair bed . xanthus was now beaten , so these two left off fighting , and are leaning upon their shields , sitting still with their spears planted beside them . alexandrus and menelaus are going to fight about yourself , and menelaus with him . i received them in my own house , and therefore know both of them by sight and conversation . when they stood up in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue 
