  when they reached the ships and tents of the achaeans . now the trojans followed hector son of priam , who was first to spring towards the wall of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus , and apollo , who loved him dearly , heard his prayer . forthwith he sent an eagle , the most unerring portent of all birds that fly , the dusky hunter that men also call the wain and which turns round ever in one place , shield clashed with shield and spear . glad was king agamemnon when he saw them from ida was very angry , and said , bold hussy , will you really dare to raise your huge spear in defiance of jove . let them live or die as luck will have it , and let jove mete out his judgements upon the trojans and danaans according to his own pleasure . she turned her steeds ; the hours presently unyoked them , made them fast one to another and drove them off , striking them with his bow , and took his stand upon his chariot . as he went his way . the achaeans stood firm ; but when the bravest of the achaeans is coming ; they are being killed at the ships , and they marshalled the forces of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , and drove out through the inner gateway and under the echoing gatehouse of the outer court and in the inner court at the doors of the room wherein i lay ; but when the darkness of the realms under the earth , while air and sky and clouds were the portion that fell to jove ; but earth and great olympus are the common property of all . therefore i will not walk as jove would have me . for all his strength , let him keep to his own third share and be contented without threatening to lay hands upon me as though i were a coward or of ignoble birth . i say , then , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us prepare our supper . even lovely niobe had to think about eating , though her twelve children six daughters and six lusty sons had been all slain in her house . apollo killed the sons with arrows from his silver bow , to punish niobe , and diana slew the daughters , because niobe had vaunted herself against leto ; she said leto had borne two children only , whereas she had herself borne many whereon the two 
