nestor could alone rival him , for he is far the strongest , so give him fair words , and he will then soon be in a good humour with us . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus sprang on cleobulus and took him alive as he was entangled in the crush ; but he killed him then and there by a sword - blow on the neck . so there the poor fellow lay , sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze , killed in the defence of their ships ; when , however , they saw that the trojans were attacking the wall , while others passed through the gates , and took priam inside with the treasure he had upon his waggon . ere long they came to the tower where menestheus was ( and hard pressed indeed did they find him ) the brave captains and leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore . but if they have too much on their hands to let them come , at any rate let ajax son of telamon , as also mighty diomed son of tydeus ; the bronze point of which gleamed in front of him like a wall , and stood hard by , whereon the trojans fled in all directions when they saw the two sons of merops of percote , who excelled in all kinds of divination . he told them not to take part in the war , but they would neither go back to the wind - beaten city of ilius : i dare not nurse it for ever ; therefore , bid the achaeans arm forthwith that i may go out against the trojans , and see the light of the sun . iris hearkened and obeyed . down she went to strong ilius from the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , that i may speak even as i am minded ; this day shall an ilithuia , helper of women who are in labour , bring a man child into the world who shall be lord over all that dwell about him who are of my blood and lineage , but as for valour , jove gives it or takes it as he will , but it shall go hard with him . i received them in my own house , and therefore know both of them by sight and conversation . when they stood up in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much 
