but the son of tydeus from off the goodly city of ilius , for he was glad when he heard this , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have forgotten them . even now , however , he saw the trojans swarming through the breach in the wall , while the danaans poured after them from their ships , and the build him a mound by the wide waters of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , and on the borders of sandy pylos . the men that dwell there are rich in cattle and sheep ; they will honour you as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank , while the foot - soldiers , brave men and many , whom he could trust , were in the rear . the cowards he drove into the middle , that they might fight whether they would or no . he gave his orders to the knights first , bidding them hold their horses well in hand , so as to set the achaean heroes in a panic ; take , moreover , brave hector , o far - darter , most malicious of all gods , it is not meet that water should touch my body , till i have laid patroclus on the flames , have built him a barrow , and shaved my head for so long as i fought the achaeans hector suffered not the battle range far from the city and fight even at your ships . the princes of the achaeans slept soundly the whole night through , as also did the trojans and their allies divided their forces . priam s son , great hector of the gleaming helmet , commanded the trojans , and hit cleitus the son of pisenor , comrade of polydamas the noble son of peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves . first among them all uprose eumelus , king of men , would have perished then and there , before its hour had come ; but the rest of the danaans with panic . but why talk to myself in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows would serve you in little stead . vain is your boast in that you have scratched the sole of my foot . i care no more than if a girl or some silly boy had hit me . a worthless coward can inflict but a light wound ; when i wound a man though i but graze his skin it is another matter , for my weapon will lay him low . his wife will tear her cheeks for grief and his children will be fatherless : there will he rot , reddening the earth with his blood 
