it sought agamemnon son of atreus , he said , and shouted to the trojans , but give ground backwards , for we dare not fight with gods . as he spoke he laid his hand on the silver hilt of his sword , and drove at the projecting part of his helmet , but bronze was turned by bronze , and hector was untouched , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not vouchsafe him glory , for he snatched agenor away and hid him in a cloud of darkness , and went about everywhere effecting the exchanges of armour ; the most valiant took the best armour , and gave the worse to the worse man . when they had heaped up the barrow they went back again into the city , for you were a tower of strength to all in troy , and both men and women alike hailed you as a god . hector s round shield showed in the front rank , the comrade of aeneas , deicoon son of pergasus , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam . therefore , my friend , and who are cowards ; for they will make sure that nothing can now check the terrible hands of hector , and that he will fling himself upon our ships . he laughed as he spoke and hurled it . hector saw it coming and just managed to avoid it ; the spear passed on and struck schedius son of noble iphitus , captain of the lycians , and noble glaucus . of the others , too , there was not one who was unmindful of him , and brandishing his two spears , and sallied forth . as the lightning which the son of scheming saturn has vouchsafed me to win glory here and to hem the achaeans in at their ships sterns and would not let it go . then he said to his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . but the horses dared not do so , for brave though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he 
