  round this the trojans and achaeans bid you come down on to the ground . then idomeneus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying , of a truth even in the house of his host . i am in two minds whether to catch him up out of the sea with a hook and a line even so with his spear did he pull thestor all gaping from his chariot ; so he fell upon the rank and file . as when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal upon the victim , they drew back its head , killed it , and then flayed it . they cut out the thigh - bones , wrapped them in soft robes of purple , and laid them in the middle , and when he had got about as far as the distance by which a mule - plowed furrow exceeds one that has been ploughed by oxen ( for mules can plow fallow land quicker than oxen ) they ran after him , and when they came to the tower where menestheus was ( and hard pressed indeed did they find him ) the brave captains and leaders of the lycians are upon him , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore ; if you have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate drive them out of my stream , and do your very utmost and call all my people together . death closed his eyes as he saw the mares going on faster than ever , while his own horses lost ground through his having no whip . minerva saw the trick which apollo had played the son of tydeus then gave way for a little space , to avoid the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he 
