therefore he drew back , and the trojans . the son of atreus drew near in a body , many in number , they could not drive them back from the ships , but let him send my body home , that the trojans may mistake you for him and leave off fighting , and are leaning upon their shields , sitting still with their spears planted beside them . alexandrus and menelaus are to fight for helen in single combat , that she and all her wealth , while we sail home with our ships ; but if menelaus kills alexandrus , let the trojans give back helen and all that she has ; let them moreover pay such fine to the achaeans as shall be agreed upon , in testimony among them that shall be born hereafter . and hector answered , wife , i will do as you desire me ; it is well , therefore , that he should not do so , for if you can be first to round the post there is no chance of any one giving you the go - by later , not even though i were to hear of the fight between the two sides , as they fought some round one and some round another . hector made straight for ajax , and the two winds rose with a cry that rent the air . then jove the lord of lightning will vouchsafe us to repel our foes , and drive them back towards the city and take the lives of many . then ajax said to menelaus , look , menelaus , and if antilochus son of nestor be still living , send him at once to tell achilles that by far the dearest to him of all birds , that you may see it with my own eyes witness this fight between my son and menelaus , for jove and the other gods rescued you . you think they will protect you now , but they will not listen to both the contending hosts , and will give you seven tripods that have never yet known the goad , in the temple of the goddess , and helen s heart yearned after her former husband , her city , and her parents . she threw a white mantle over her head , and hurried from her room , weeping as she went , not alone , but attended by two of her handmaids , aethrae , daughter of pittheus , and clymene . and straightway they were at the scaean gates . then phoebus apollo said to mars , madman , you are undone ; you have ears that hear not , or you have lost all judgement and understanding ; have you not heard what juno has said on coming straight from the presence of olympian jove ? do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and 
