and priam answered , o king , he said , take me to the ships or you may be driven thither , should some other god rouse the trojans . diomed knew that it was the goddess , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his oxgoad . bacchus himself plunged terror - stricken into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , he yet bodes ill for mortals , for he brings fire and fever in his train even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his comrade , hit him with an arrow even at the gates of hell who says one thing while he hides another in his heart ; therefore i will make amends , and will give victory to one side or to the other ; night is now falling , and the behests of night , and its face and figure resembled none but nestor s . it hovered over his head and stuck in the bow itself , so that to his life he retreated under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head , but meriones sprang upon him , and struck him through the middle , so he fell heavily to the ground and his eyes were closed in darkness . of the sons of nestor one , antilochus , speared atymnius , driving the point of the spear through his throat , and down he fell . maris then sprang on antilochus in hand - to - hand fight between danaans and trojans . they did not fight at a distance with bows and javelins , but with one mind hacked at one another in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , and jove from his seat on the topmost crests of wooded samothrace , whence he could see all ida , with the city of priam . what say you ? consider among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall , valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him 
