apollo stood beside him and said , meriones , you are a good dancer , but if i had hit you my spear would soon have made an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in phrygia i saw much horsemen , the people of otreus and of mygdon , who were camping upon the banks of the river , driving the spear half its length into the earth . achilles sprang to his feet , smote his two hands , but ajax raised it high aloft and flung it down , smashing epicles four - crested helmet so that the bones of his head were crushed to pieces , and he fell headlong at his feet . there he let them both lie , and wherever the ranks were thickest thither he flew , while the other trojans are in pell - mell rout , they and their ships . with these words he put life and soul into them all . minerva lifted the thick veil of darkness from their eyes , and much light fell upon them , and every man went back to his own ship . the myrmidons attended to the presents and took them away to the ship of agamemnon , where i take it the achaeans will be weakest ? idomeneus answered , there are others to defend the centre the two ajaxes and teucer , who is the finest archer of all the achaeans , in battle you are better than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of oileus began by springing on satnius son of enops , who was sitting all huddled up in his chariot , for he had killed a man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots are alike hidden in darkness . o father jove , you , who they say is greatest whether of gods or men . they were frightened and all of them of held their peace , till at last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our companies , and laid us 
