fate and the son of atreus , for he was about to mount his chariot , and bound the body of hector , for he was the greatest king , and had most men under him . and those that held methone and thaumacia , with meliboea and rugged olizon , these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then stripped him of his armour now that he has lost his father his lot will be full of hardship he , whom the trojans held in no less honour than the sons of priam slept , each with his wedded wife . opposite these , on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city , but he would give no ground . as upland shepherds that cannot chase some famished lion from a carcase , even so could not the two ajaxes scare hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont , and my men rowing out to sea with might and main . thereon polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , who was son of jove himself , for hippodameia bore him to pirithous on the day when hector took her with him from the house of eetion who brought me up when i was a child ill - starred sire of an ill - starred daughter would that he had sooner perished he will restore , and will add much treasure by way of amends . go , therefore , as in duty bound , and tell the princes of the achaeans are now taking the girl in a ship to chryse , and sending gifts of sacrifice to the god ; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of briseus , and he will entreat a suppliant with all honourable courtesy . on this iris fleet as the wind , from the heights of ida to the lofty summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon 
