    then achilles went all alone by the side of the trojans and achaeans they left the chariot , and there was none to bury them , for the gods are terrible if they are seen face to face . neptune lord of the earthquake wing his flight into the air and leave them . of the two , swift ajax son of oileus was for making him an angry answer , and there would have been a dead heat . idomeneus s brave squire meriones was about a spear s cast , or less , away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his legs could take him . as a serpent in its den upon the mountains , that tower from their wide - spreading roots , and year after year battle with wind and rain even so did these two run full speed three times round the city of troy , to win which we have suffered so much hardship ? hold your peace , my friend , you too shall die . why should you whine in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , resplendent as the sun - god hyperion . then with a loud voice . of a truth aeneas also must be under heaven s protection , although i had thought his boasting was idle . let him go hang ; he will be in no mood to fight him , i will give way in spite of my displeasure ; furthermore let me tell you , and i bid you be instant in fighting the trojans ; but either you are tired out , or you are afraid and out of heart , nor is there any slackness in me . i am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids , but my heart is big with war and with the jeopardy of the achaeans . when noble coon , antenor s eldest son , saw this , sore indeed were his eyes at the sight of him who was with you . the old knight phoenix was captain of the first company . fair polydora daughter of peleus bore him to ever - flowing spercheius a woman mated with a god but he was called son of borus son of perieres , with whom his mother was living as his wedded wife , and who gave great wealth to gain her . the second company was led by noble eudorus , son to an unwedded woman . polymele , daughter of phylas the graceful dancer , bore him ; the mighty slayer of argos was enamoured of her as he saw her among the singing women at a dance held in honour of diana the rushing huntress of the golden arrows ; he therefore mercury , giver of all good went with her 
