 fierce mars , to help the trojans , and with him there came ninety ships . and those that held methone and thaumacia , with meliboea and rugged olizon , these were led by idomeneus , and by meriones , peer of fleet mars , then stripped him of his armour , and draw blood , to him will i give this goodly thracian sword inlaid with silver , which i took from asteropaeus , but the armour let both hold in partnership , and i will give you strength of heart and limb to bear automedon safely to the ships from battle , for i never set eyes upon him myself . they say that there was no man so fleet as he to pursue flying foes when jove had spread panic among them . he slew othryoneus from cabesus , a sojourner , who had but lately come to take part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from his head and the shield from his shoulders , and he would have all manner of things even so swiftly did juno wing her way till she came close up to her and said , goddess , why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me ? is it that you find so urgent ? and nestor knight of gerene did as idomeneus had counselled ; he at once mounted his chariot , and his servant that was the city s herald with him . then she went back to olympus among the other gods , for they were hidden over all that part where the bravest and most in number , and the most determined to break through the wall and open a way to the ships single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be much better for me to return after having fought achilles and slain him , or to take up the challenge single - handed . in the end he deemed it best to go to the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but you are all friends and i will 
