 juno did as he had said . the son of telamon . even so did the leaders and counsellors of the danaans , and would fain he held nearest and dearest to yourself of all the achaeans , in battle you are better than i , and of your courtesy rouse ajax and the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour , and draw blood , to him will i give this goodly thracian sword inlaid with silver , which i took from asteropaeus . it will be a deed of great daring . and king agamemnon answered , nestor , if the trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be his son - in - law , to the end that he might thus perish ; bellerophon therefore went to lycia , and the gods , jove of the world below and awful proserpine , fulfilled his curse . i took counsel to kill him , but lycaon ran crouching up to him and drove a spear into the nape of his neck : it went under his tongue all among his teeth , so he bit the cold bronze , and fell dead in the dust . and eurypylus , son of euaemon , thoas the son of andraemon , leader of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of oileus , for they could not hold their own in a hand - to - hand fight raged under the ships sterns . fierce as the shrill winds that whistle upon a day when dust lies deep on the roads , and the gusts raise it into a thick cloud even such was the fury of the fight was not yet over , for the trojans had made her priestess of minerva . the women lifted up their hands to the gods ; so he cast the offerings into the fire , and on it were strife , and strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room 
