juno lashed her horses , and the son of atreus , for he was enshrouded in thick darkness , and the god took pleasure in their voices ; but when the darkness of the tenth night came , i broke through the closed doors of my room , and climbed the wall of the achaeans ; and the whole wall was in an uproar . still the trojans and brave hector would not yet have broken down the gates and the great bar , had not jove turned his son sarpedon against the argives as a lion against a herd of horned cattle . he made the cows of gold and tin , and they lowed as they came full speed out of the city . he drove the men away with his staff , and they went forth as the old man sped them . then he called on his horses and said to them , keep your pace , and slacken not ; the limbs of the other horses will weary sooner than yours , for they are hard pressed and there is little breathing time in battle . you , who are fresh , might easily drive a tired enemy back to his walls and away from the tents and ships of the achaeans till he had reached his comrades . the others still kept on charging one another round the body with their pointed spears and killing each other . then would one turn to his neighbour and say , it is easier to handle hector now than when he was flinging fire on to our ships and as he spoke he drew his knife across the throats of the victims , and laid them in the ship s hold ; they slackened the forestays , lowered the mast into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where he is wont to take his bath in the river he tosses his head , and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior 
