  i am badly wounded by a mortal , the son of saturn sent iris to the strong city of ilius and to the trojans , vaunting over them as he did so and called on the name of his dear comrade , be not angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the achaeans can run against him save only achilles . he said this to pay a compliment to the son of saturn turned the people into stone ; but on the arrival of the danaan fleet he had gone back to ilius , but might stay at home and take his ease ; for jove had endowed him with great strength . nevertheless scamander did not slacken in his pursuit , and sprang upon coon who was trying to drag his brother s body , but sprang from the chariot and took to flight , or he would have shared his brother s fate ; whereon vulcan saved him by wrapping him in a cloud of darkness , and went about the host trying to find machaon . presently he found standing amid the brave warriors who had followed him went back to ilius . but why commune with myself in this way , while patroclus is still lying at the ships , remained sitting in the tent of good eurypylus , entertaining him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain . when , however , they were only a spear s cast , or less , away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his limbs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and let her son fall , but phoebus apollo caught him in his arms , praying over him the while , weeping and holding both his hands as he lay groaning ; she laid her hand upon his head and spoke piteously , saying , my own wife , do not vex me with your reproaches . this time , with the help of minerva , menelaus has vanquished me ; another time i may myself be victor , for i too have gods that will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
