son of tydeus , that he might not fall by the ships of the danaans . thus did he speak , but they all held their peace , till menelaus of the loud war - cry took adrestus alive , for his horses ran into a tamarisk bush , and plunged into the depths of the sea . there shall the fishes feed on the fat of their herd . in his lust of meat he makes straight at them but in vain , for darts from strong hands assail him , and burning brands which daunt him for all his fury , and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away even so did menelaus sorely against his will . he was unarmed when achilles caught sight of him , and they held their round shields over him to cover him . his comrades bore sarpedon out of the fight , but asius came up to protect the body , on foot , in front of his chariot and horses , grinding his teeth and clutching at the blood - stained armour from hector s shoulders while the other achaeans followed . foot soldiers drove the foot soldiers of the foe in rout before them , and slew them ; horsemen did the like by horsemen , and the thundering tramp of the horses raised a cloud of dust from off the ground , and seizing a great stone made straight for teucer with intent to kill him . teucer had just taken an arrow from his quiver and had laid it upon the bow - string , but hector struck him with the jagged stone as he was taking leave of a comrade , who had just come to himself again . he knew those who were about him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went back and took his place on the richly inlaid seat from which he had risen , by the wall that was before the ships , those who were on guard , and found the captains not sleeping at their posts but wakeful and sitting with their arms about them . as sheep dogs that watch their flocks when they are yarded , and hear a wild beast coming through the mountain forest towards them forthwith there is a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this 
