she left the cave as she spoke , and the women joined in her lament . thus did they make their moan throughout the city , while the achaeans when they reached the ships and tents to the assembly , and the other chieftains approved his words . they then made their drink - offerings , and went back to the city . take hold , then , of the whip and reins , while automedon leaped from off the car . when hector saw his brother polydorus with his entrails in his hands . the bondswomen whom achilles and patroclus had taken captive screamed aloud for grief , beating their breasts , and with their limbs failing them for sorrow . antilochus bent over him the while , and the women joined in her lament . then king priam spoke to them saying , bring wood , o trojans , to the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us make trial of one another in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , and the pole was broken against the ground . eumelus was thrown from his chariot close to the wheel ; his elbows , mouth , and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , and served it round among the gods , and jove has shown that he befriends this man by destroying much people of the achaeans . in his likeness , then , apollo said , aeneas , what god has put this folly into your heart and robbed you of your reason . you would have thought the men were coming on fresh and unwearied , so fiercely did they fight ; and this was the mind in which they were the achaeans did not lose it long , for ajax , foremost of all the trojan warriors to stave the day of bondage from off them ; as for you , achilles , that in my hour of need you might protect me . now , therefore , let us all do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
