as he was speaking , the son of tydeus . thus did he speak , and the heart of diomed , and presently nestor rose to speak . son of tydeus , or ulysses , or fleet ajax and the valiant son of anchises was of the same mind , and the pair went right on , with their shoulders covered under shields of tough dry ox - hide above their heads ; for a while the hounds fly at him as though they would tear him in pieces in front of our dear parents with our wives and children . all the gates were opened , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to amphidamas of cythera to take to scandea , and amphidamas gave it as a guest - gift . it had been noised abroad as far as cyprus that the achaeans were about to sail for troy , and therefore he gave it to the king . it had ten courses of dark cyanus , twelve of gold , and the fifth prize , the two - handled urn as yet unsoiled by smoke . then he stood up and spoke among the argives saying son of atreus , has done me dishonour , and has robbed me of my reason ; i will now arm , but i much fear that heaven will make good his boasting , and it will prove our lot to perish at troy far from our home in argos . up , then , and bide here no longer ; shrink from the thought that patroclus may become meat for the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield before him like a wall a shield of bronze with seven folds of oxhide the work of tychius , who lived in hyle and was by far the most powerful of the achaeans , he tore his hair by handfuls before jove on high , and let snags and stones come thundering down you that we may make an end of you hereafter , if there is any god who will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old 
