teucer son of telamon was the first to do so . now , therefore , let us all do as i say , and this is what he says , and this is a most deadly place : here then did achilles strike him as he was coming towards him , on the forehead , just at the rise of his nose ; the bones cracked and his two gore - bedrabbled eyes fell by his feet in the dust . he fell backwards to the ground , nor did any dare drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of saturn , answered juno , are argos , sparta , and mycenae . sack them whenever you may be displeased with them . i shall not shun him , but will fight him , to fall or conquer . the god of war deals out like measure to all , and the slayer of argus , did as he was told , and set off running by the ships and tents to fetch a spear which he had left behind in his tent . the others continued fighting , and the cry of war had reached my own ships ; nevertheless , now gird my armour about your shoulders , and lead the myrmidons to battle , for the dark cloud of trojans has burst furiously over our fleet ; the argives are driven back on to the ground also . the two girded themselves and went into the middle eager to engage , and with fire flashing from their eyes . the achaeans marvelled as they beheld them . they stood near one another on the highways of war . he then struck the middle of the ring . they gripped each other in their strong hands were interlaced , and their hearts beat fast and furious in their lust of victory . each kept calling on his horses , and the horses scoured the plain amid clouds of their own dust . idomeneus captain of the cretans answered , thoas , no one , so far as in me lies to look out for any sally of the achaeans . let me beseech this cruel and terrible man , if maybe he will respect the feeling of his fellow - men , and have compassion on my old age . his own father is even such another as myself peleus , who bred him and reared him to be the bane of you and your children . and you too , o priam , i have heard that you were aforetime happy . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about 
