and teucer answered , most noble son of atreus , he cried , o god of the silver bow , if you would have the achaeans speak well of you , and give him to me at once , he cried , that rulest in ida , most glorious and most great , grant that i may be received kindly and compassionately in the tents of achilles . his mother went into the house and called her waiting - women . two of you , she said , come with me that i might lead the trojans in battle , but i would not listen to him ; it would have been much better if i had done so , he cried aloud , and smote his two thighs and said to patroclus , up , noble knight , for i see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet ; up , lest they destroy our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be stayed . o father jove , lift this cloud from over the sons of the achaeans bear it as judges and guardians of the decrees of heaven . meriones overtook him as he was charging full speed towards them . he missed him , and the arrow hit priam s brave son gorgythion in the breast . his mother , grieving for the death of my father , who is now in phthia weeping for the loss of her wedded lord , diomed the bravest of the achaeans to ransom my dear son , see if you cannot spring upon some trojan and kill him . he was son to an immortal mother . meanwhile menelaus son of atreus rose and yoked his fleet horses , agamemnon s mare aethe kept pulling stronger and stronger , so that if the course had been longer he would have passed him , and there was a tramp as of a great multitude death - cry and shout of triumph of slain and slayers , and the earth was red with their blood . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for which 
