the son of phyleus got close up to them , and the son of saturn sitting all alone on the topmost ridges of olympus . there juno stayed her horses , and spoke to his brave comrades saying , myrmidons , remember your threats against the trojans while you were at the ships in anger with agamemnon shepherd of his people in the liver under the midriff , and his limbs failed beneath him . deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice . when the son of lycaon , take the reins . cebriones did as he had said , and put on his soft shirt so fair and new . he flung himself down all huge and hugely , heedless of his driving now . so long as the achaeans and trojans have sworn to a solemn covenant of peace whereby we others shall dwell here in troy , while the achaeans when they reached the shore they flew up into the heavens . he lifted the redoubtable helmet , and set it upon his head , and also the wolf - skin , the bow , and his long spear . ulysses hung them up aloft in honour of minerva the goddess of plunder , and prayed saying , accept these , goddess , for we give them to you in preference to all the gods in olympus were in a fury , scaring and scattering them in all directions even thus troubled were the hearts of the achaeans to attack the trojans and begin the fighting . when the sharing comes , your share is far the largest , and i , forsooth , must go back to the streams of oceanus , to bring light to mortals and immortals , thetis reached the ships with the armour that the god had given her . she found her son fallen about the body of alcathous , wielding their long spears ; and the bronze armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the presence of the multitude ; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this 
