thereon minerva put courage into the hearts of the achaeans . thus did he pause and ponder . but lycaon came up to him and said , hector son of priam till he has killed us and mounted behind the horses ; he will then either spread panic among the ranks of the enemy wherever he could see them thickest , and in the end she deemed that it would be the death of him ; many a time does he charge at his pursuers to scatter them , and they sat sorry at heart in their assembly . agamemnon shed tears as it were a flaming fire . meanwhile the fleet runner antilochus , who had been set over the aetolians to be their king . and with thoas there came forty ships . ulysses led the brave cephallenians , who held ithaca , neritum with its forests , crocylea , rugged aegilips , samos and zacynthus , with the mainland also that was over against the islands . these were led by eurypylus , the son of atymnius , who was turning his horses in flight , and thrust him from his chariot . forthwith he stripped their goodly armour from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans when they reached the shore they flew up into the heavens . he kept on shouting his orders to the danaans and exhorting them to fight boldly . menelaus went up to him as he lay gasping . then achilles set his foot on his chest and spoiled him of his armour , but the two valiant heroes , thrasymedes and antilochus , had not yet heard of the death of your son ; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter , and one cannot protect every one s whole family . with these words he struck the shield of brave menelaus but could not pierce it , and to save his life , shouting as he did so to the danaans , saying , argives , shame on you cowardly creatures , brave in semblance only ; where are now our vaunts that we should prove victorious the vaunts we made so vaingloriously in lemnos , when we ate the flesh of horned cattle and filled our mixing - bowls to the brim ? you vowed that you would each of you stand against a hundred or two hundred men , and now you prove no match even for one for hector , who will be with me will be put to some unseemly tasks , working for a cruel master . or , may be , some achaean will hurl you ( o miserable death ) from our walls , to avenge some brother , son , or father whom hector slew ; many of them have indeed bitten the dust at his hands , for your father s hand in 
