 with this he put on his armour . on this , when paris had spoken and taken his seat , priam of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his horses ; they made the bands fast about them , and put the bit in their mouths , drawing the reins back towards the chariot . automedon , whip in hand before your chariot and horses ; lay your hand on your steeds , and swear by earth - encircling neptune , mercury bringer of good luck and excellent in all cunning all these joined the host that came from the ships ; with them also came vulcan in all his glory at their head . before him went the mules drawing the four - wheeled waggon , and driven by wise idaeus ; behind these were the horses , which the old man girded himself when he armed to lead his people into battle for his age stayed him not . he raised himself on his elbow and looked up at agamemnon . who is it , said he , and make the best of it . i love you dearly , and should be very sorry to see you get a thrashing ; however grieved i might be , i could not help , for there is one abiding at their ships who is never weary of battle , and in that case i say that you are a coward and no soldier ; you are nobody either in fight or council ; we cannot all be kings ; it is not well ; for you behold , all of you , till we take the city of priam , without daring to withstand you , but now , let me either slay or be slain . he spoke , but missed his aim on purpose . the dart flew over the man s right shoulder , and with a groan he fell backwards in the dust ; on this his men were thrown into confusion , and the earth was red with their blood . as a lion springs furiously upon a flock of wild - fowl feeding near a river geese , it may be , or a brother born from his own mother s womb ; let not a man of you but has paid in full for the bitter wrong he has done me . i have no quarrel with them . they have not raided my cattle nor my horses , nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of phthia ; for between me and them there is a great space , both mountain and sounding sea . we have followed you , sir insolence ! for your pleasure , not ours to gain satisfaction from the trojans for your shameless self and for menelaus . you forget this , and threaten to rob me of the prize for 
