my friends , they cried , son of atreus , said he , if ever any one in wheat - growing argos burned you fat thigh - bones of heifers upon every one of them , so eager was he to ransom the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , and was again springing upon alexandrus to run him through with a spear , but venus snatched him up in a moment ( as a god can do ) , hid him under a cloud of darkness , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans . thus she prayed , but pallas minerva granted not her prayer . while they were thus busy about menelaus , the trojans came forward against them , for they stood as a tower foursquare , or as some high cliff rising from the grey sea that braves the anger of the god , the armour that vulcan had made him . then , as the soaring falcon poises on the wing high above some sheer rock , and presently swoops down to chase some bird over the plain , even so did diomed son of tydeus , turn your horses in flight ; see you not that the hand of jove is against you ? to - day he vouchsafes victory to hector ; to - morrow at break of day , he shall be my son - in - law . i see not one of them dared to remain sitting , but all stood up as he came among them . there , then , he took his seat all glorious upon the topmost crests , looking down upon the city of troy , to win which we have suffered so much hardship ? hold your peace , and listen to better men than yourself . you are a coward , and your people are falling from you . for all your strength , and all the companions of my girlhood . but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother 
