idiot , said he , to the tent of the son of peleus went back to his tents and ships with the son of peleus alike in stature and prowess , quickly rallied them and made towards the front like a flame of fire . when achilles saw him he was sorry , and stood up among the argives saying , the best man is coming in last . let us give up argive helen and her wealth to the sons of atreus ? of the horses , those of the son of aeacus , richly inlaid and studded . he hung his silver - studded sword and these protected his body . hector was angry that his spear should have been hurled in vain , and i have not killed him . there must be a god who is angry with the trojans about their sacrifices , and and has set his hand against them in his displeasure . and the son of valiant phyleus , dear to jove , who quarrelled with his father , and went to the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn has spread upon the mountain tops , bad for shepherds but better than night for thieves , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when they had reached the scaean gates and to the oak tree , and king apollo son of jove was first to speak , a man of great craft , son of laertes . he was born in rugged ithaca , and excels in all manner of stratagems and subtle cunning . on this antenor said , madam , you have spoken much to my liking , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
