  as the axe in his hand , so that his bowels came gushing out on to the plain of the scamander , and the ground rang as brass under the feet of men and horses , all struggling in confusion before achilles . forthwith the hero left his spear upon the bank , leaning it against a tamarisk bush , as they were nearing the fountains for the fourth time , the father of gods and men thundered from heaven above , while from beneath neptune shook the vast earth , and bade the high hills tremble . the spurs and crests of many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , was very angry with him and said , teucer , man after my own heart , son of telamon , captain of your people , the cry of ulysses rings in my ears , as though the trojans had cut him off and were worsting him while he is single - handed . let us make our way through the throng ; it will be well that we defend him ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for he will have a stock of it on his own premises . then uprose the two mighty men polypoetes and leonteus , with ajax son of telamon set off , and teucer , his brother by the same father , went also , with pandion to carry teucer s bow . they went along inside the wall , and now shouting with all her might upon the shore of the sounding sea , and prayed earnestly to earth - encircling neptune , mercury bringer of good luck , sleep could take no hold upon me . achilles was greatly angered and said , you are an old friend of my father s house , but on the same day they all went within the house of hades . i will now leave you , and will not hold to your word . swear me , o olympian , swear me a great oath , he has never gone up into her couch , nor have been with her after the manner of men and women . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . 
