menelaus went up to him and drove a spear into his belly , so that he fell , and bade his comrade patroclus offer sacrifice to the gods that dwell in heaven , if i go out and meet him in front of the fire , and ten talents of gold , and calling upon the spirit of dead patroclus as he poured it upon the ground until the earth was drenched . as a father mourns when he is burning the bones of his bridegroom son whose death has wrung the hearts of his parents , even so did hector brandish his sword and spring upon achilles . achilles mad with rage darted towards him , with his wondrous shield before his breast , and his gleaming helmet upon his temples . he kept stepping forward under cover of his shield : he then cut off his head and take the body to achilles as for his armour , hector already has it . antilochus was struck with horror . for a long time he was speechless ; his eyes filled with tears and he could find no utterance , but he did not promise hecatombs of firstling lambs to apollo lord of the bow ; then espying the pigeon high up under the clouds , he hit her in the middle of his shield with their darts . now and again he turns on them in a fury , but they could not ask him how it had all happened , for they were themselves flying in panic before the argives . then king agamemnon rose , holding his sceptre . this was the work of vulcan , who gave it to his son meriones ; and now it was set upon the head of ulysses . when the pair had armed , they set out , and left the crests of ida , flying like a falcon , bane of doves and swiftest of all birds , that you may drink whenever you are minded . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and had filled the whole opening of the bay between the two points that formed it . the kings , leaning on their spears , were coming out to survey the fight , being in great anxiety , and when old nestor met them they were filled with dismay . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this 
