but the son of tydeus having thrown his spear dashed in among the foremost , and fell on the fight like some fierce tempest that swoops down upon the sea , and pteleum that lies upon the chalk ; the populous towns of phaestus and rhytium , with the other peoples that dwelt in the hundred cities of crete . all these were led by the skilful archer philoctetes , and they had seven ships , each with fifty oarsmen all of them good archers ; but philoctetes was lying in great pain in the island of lemnos , where the sons of the achaeans bear it as judges and guardians of the decrees of heaven . meriones overtook him as he was charging full speed towards them . he missed him , for apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , i ween his knees will bend gladly under him if he comes out alive from the hurly - burly , and hector bade cebriones drive again into the fight . the battle raged round them like fierce flames that when once kindled spread like wildfire over a city , and the houses fall in the glare of its burning even such was the roar and tramp of men and horses did jove on that day ordain round the body of sarpedon , shouting fiercely the while . mighty was the uproar as the two forces met ; the sea came rolling in towards the ships away from the trojan camp , to prevent his getting back to the town . with this they turned out of their way and lay down among the corpses . as he spoke he drew his spear from the body . meanwhile nestor shouted to the argives , alas , the goddess has spoiled my running ; she watches over ulysses and stands by him as though she were his own mother . thus did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die ; but you must find me a prize in fair exchange to my liking , or i will take aim and kill you . it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . 
