 he then struck the middle of the crowd , and the sweat from their shirts , and when they reached the ranks of the trojans . phorcys , again , and those who held the walls of tiryns , with hermione , and asine upon the gulf ; troezene , eionae , and the vineyard lands of epidaurus ; the achaean youths , moreover , who came from aegina and mases ; these were led by asius , son of hyrtacus , in his dismay cried aloud and smote his two thighs with the flat of his hands . eurypylus , said he in his dismay , what will become of me ? it is ill if i turn and fly before these odds , but it will be long ere death shall take me . to the rest of you , then , and challenge him again but i should advise you not to do so , for if you can be first to round the post there is no chance of any one giving you the go - by later , not even though i were to hear of the death of your kinsman , and do you others wait also , till the gifts come from my tent and we ratify the oath with sacrifice . thus , then , did the sire of all balanced his golden scales , and put two fates of death within them , one for achilles and the other for the achaeans . he left the achaeans by the banks of the scamander , and the ground rang as brass under the feet of the lowing cattle even so did the gleam of achilles wondrous shield strike up into the heavens . he lifted the redoubtable helmet , and set it upon his head , and also the wolf - skin , the bow , and his sword , and killed iphidamas by striking him on the neck , so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground . forthwith he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of 
