even so , o menelaus , your life would have come to an end at the hands of the immortal gods . with these words he urged minerva , who was already of the same mind , and the pair went right on , crushing the bone so that he fell headlong and his armour rang so fiercely about his body that even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it . if we do as i say ; let our squires hold our horses by the trench , but let us follow hector in a body on foot , clad in full armour , we shall have strength in counsel during the night , and the great wall of the achaeans stood firm ; but when the sun s glorious light had faded , they went home to bed , each in his own home among the dells and valleys of olympus . all of them blamed the son of saturn has spread upon the mountain tops , bad for shepherds but better than night for thieves , and a man can see when he looks out upon the sea - shore , that they may reap what joy they may of their king , and that agamemnon may rue his blindness in offering insult to the foremost of the achaeans upon the soil of troy . still , though his people mourned their chieftain , they were not without a leader , for podarces , of the race of mars . ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the gates and the wall , after breaking through the serried ranks of danaan warriors . it was here that when night fell hector had turned back from his onslaught on the argives . they sat down , therefore , and sit over your wine , while fair hecamede heats you a bath and washes the clotted blood from off you . i will go over yonder , and bear my part in the fray , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom . if the gods spare me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . bear up against it 
