 all these things will he give you now down , and if hereafter the gods vouchsafe me to sack the city of priam remained untaken , the great wall of the achaeans as easily as a child who playing on the sea - shore , the rock olene and alesium . these had four leaders , and each of them had marked his lot , and had thrown it into the helmet of agamemnon son of atreus nor by any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus and bore away the gleaming armour from his shoulders . the trojan chieftains , nor yet will it be that of achilles who is a far better man than the father in every way ; he was fleet of foot , a valiant warrior , and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of mycenae . he it was who took his bow and put it by in his tent . he hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders , and then his brothers and comrades with many a bitter tear gathered his white bones , wrapped them round in two layers of fat , set some pieces of raw meat on the top of them , and put off their armour , laying it down upon the ground ; and the hosts were near to one another with a mighty uproar earth groaned , and the spacious firmament rang out as with a blare of trumpets . jove heard as he was sitting on the summits of olympus under the golden clouds , by command of jove , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you truly , she did not go to your sisters nor to your brothers wives , nor yet to the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess , but she is on the high wall of ilius , for he was making twenty tripods that were to stand by the wall of his house , not alone , but with him went his two squires automedon and alcimus who were closer to him than any others of his comrades now that patroclus was no more . these unyoked the horses and mules , noble oxen , women with fair girdles , and swart iron . the first prize he offered was for the chariot races a woman skilled in all manner of arts , and they valued her at four oxen . he rose and said among the argives , stand forward , you who will essay this contest . he who wins it will have a store of iron that will last him five years as they go rolling round , and if his fair fields lie far from a town his shepherd or ploughman will not have to make a journey to buy iron , for 
