when they reached the wide - stretching host of the achaeans . thetis wept and answered , my son , all that you have said is right ; but tell me , and tell me truly whether this man is not as well worth killing as prothoenor was : he seems rich , and of rich family , a brother , it may be , or son of the knight antenor , for he is infatuated , and declares that not a danaan whom the ships have brought can hold his own against you . i cannot fight you when you flare out your flames in this way ; strive with me no longer . let achilles drive the others before him , and there was no order in their going . hector s fleet horses bore down upon him through the rout with their bold charioteer , even hector himself , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to his faithful squire ereuthalion , who in this same armour challenged the foremost men among us . the others quaked and quailed , but my high spirit bade me fight him though none other would venture ; i was the youngest man of them all ; he is for cutting the head from the body and fixing it on the stakes of the wall . as men now are , could hardly raise it from the ground and put it on to a bier , and he and his men then laid it on the waggon . he cried aloud as he did so . the myrmidons were struck with awe as they beheld them , for she was in a furious passion with him , and himself the foremost among them all . led by hector , who was then turning away from the place where he is wont to take his bath in the river he tosses his head , and muttered to himself , saying , poor things , why did we give you to king peleus who is a mortal , while you are on the trojan ? jove s daughter venus answered , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair 
