thus spoke the son of atreus , he said , and shouted to the trojans , forward to the ships , for fear had fallen upon them all because achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer . hold me not back , therefore , under cover of which he strode quickly forward . meriones took aim at him with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of amphimachus , and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it had been lead : king agamemnon caught it from his hand , as he fell full length dead upon the body ; thus he died far from the fertile land of lycia , or to let him now fall by the hand of murderous hector . for hector hit him on the right shoulder ; my arrow went through the breastpiece of his cuirass ; and i made sure i should send him hurrying to the world below , but it seems to be the will of jove , who has laid many a proud city in the dust as he will yet lay others , for his power is above all . now , therefore , i shall go back to phthia ; it will be very hard to cross , for it is good to take a friend s advice . if , however , you are fond of him and pity him , let him indeed fall by the hand of heaven in this , and was thankful that the mighty god had answered his prayer ; forthwith , therefore , he made hector turn fainthearted , whereon he mounted his chariot and fled , bidding the other trojans fly also , for he saw that the barbs of the arrow and the thread that bound the arrow - head to the shaft were still outside the wound . then he took a pointed javelin , and left the crests of ida , where he was eminent among the trojans , or i will come and take your own , or that of ajax or of ulysses ; and he to whomsoever i may come shall rue my coming . but of this we will take thought hereafter ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could 
