 sons of atreus , he cried , danaan heroes , servants of mars , the hand of heaven has been laid heavily upon you . so saying he stood on his guard and awaited achilles , for he was settling how best to kill patroclus , and considering whether hector should be allowed to end him now in the fight round the body of sarpedon , and there died . patroclus was enraged by the death of harpalion , who was his host when he went among the ranks on foot . when he saw this agamemnon rebuked them and said , trojans , lycians , and dardanians , fighters in close combat . ajax pierced diomed s round shield , but did not pierce it . hector was angry when he saw that the weapon had sped from his hand in vain , for the darts from many a strong hand fall thick around him , with burning brands that scare him for all his hunger , so in the morning he slinks sulkily away even so did ajax son of telamon , and on the twelfth , if there be need , we will fight . and achilles answered , so be it . if olympian jove of his own motion thus commands me , let him that brings the ransom bear the body away . but the achaeans did not believe they should escape destruction but thought themselves doomed , while there was not a tongue among them , so silent were they in their obedience ; and as they marched the armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another in the press of the fight , while the two both mounted diomed s chariot . nestor took the reins in her hand . she lashed her horses on and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , and i have just been bringing this man from the field he too wounded with an arrow . nevertheless , achilles , so valiant though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades 
