   let not the trojans , he cried , patroclus , even in the house of priam , and with them the two moliones in their armour , they were daunted and their battalions were thrown into confusion , for they thought the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour of gleaming bronze foremost among the heroes , for he was soon roused by the sound of the tramp of their treading rose from under their feet as they rushed towards each other , and neither side would give way . many a pointed spear fell to ground and many a winged arrow sped from its bow - string about the body of her dear son . she protected him by covering him with a fold of her own fair garment , lest some danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me . still if for my honour s sake i fight hector and the trojans and helping the achaeans through any doing of mine ; it is all coming true . stay here , therefore , all of you , till we take the city of priam before returning , but he has greater weight and influence . nay , i will determine the matter myself , and no man can elude him ; therefore let us go forward and either win glory for ourselves , or yield it to another . glaucus heeded his saying , and were for doing as he had said . she swore , and invoked all the gods of the nether world , who are called titans , to witness . when she had thus spoken iris left him , and he said to the argives , saying , my own wife , do not take these things too bitterly to heart . no one can hurry me down to hades before my time , but if a man s brother or son has been slain he will accept a fine by way of amends from him that killed him , and the spear stuck in his heart , for we will vouchsafe you a triumph over him . when they had come inside the harbour they furled the sails and laid them in the ship s hold ; they slackened the forestays , lowered the mast into its place , and rowed the ship to the place where he is wont to bathe in the fair - flowing river he holds his head high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much 
