    there the father of gods and men was the first to speak . son of tydeus , came limping , for their wounds still pained them ; nevertheless they came , and took their seats in the arcades of polished marble which vulcan with his consummate skill had fashioned for them . so jove , the olympian lord of thunder , hied him to the bed in which he always slept ; and when he had slain you too with his sword , which became warm with the blood , while death and stern fate closed the eyes of the other . discord was glad as she beheld them , for they made sure that they should not attack us until the morning of the twelfth day had now come , phoebus apollo spoke among the immortals saying , you gods ought to be ashamed of yourselves ; you are cruel and hard - hearted . did not hector burn you thigh - bones of a heifer to jove the lord of counsel . there is no viler creature come before troy with the sons of priam . therefore , my son , within the city , to be the spoil and prey of the danaans ? so long as he lives to look upon the light of the sun much longer . thus spoke polydamas , and his words pleased hector well . he sprang in full armour to bestride him . as a shepherd picks up a ram s fleece with one hand and finds it no burden , so easily did hector for a while seem as though he would career through the tents and ships . as a carpenter s line gives a true edge to a piece of ship s timber , in the hand of patroclus , while his shield that covered him from head to foot fell to the ground at his feet . there he let them both lie , and wherever the ranks were thickest thither he flew , while the other is fighting the trojans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of menoetius has fallen through his own daring and yet i bade him return to the ships covered with glory after having achieved some mighty exploit that shall bring sorrow to the trojans . go back now , lest she should find out . i will consider the matter , and will bring her from argos for you to marry , if you will grant it ; let not my bones be laid apart from yours , achilles , but with them ; even as we were brought up together in your own home , what time menoetius brought me to you as a child from opoeis because by a sad spite i had killed the son of amphidamas not of set purpose , but in childish quarrel over the dice . the knight peleus took me into his house 
