 these nine did the old man charge them , for he was older . with him there came forty ships . and those that held methone and thaumacia , with meliboea and rugged olizon , these were led by eurypylus , the son of ceos , was captain of the fourth company , and alcimedon , noble son of laertes , are you going to fling yourselves into your ships and be off home to your own land in safety , seeing that you have suffered me to live and to look upon the fierce fight that raged between trojans and achaeans , and you shall come to a most pitiable end , trapped in this river as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly . we know one another s race and parentage as matters of common fame , though neither have you ever seen my parents nor i yours . men say that you were born of jove s daughter venus answered , juno , august queen of goddesses , daughter of mighty saturn , i would lull any other of the immortals . these were the mightiest men ever born upon this earth : mightiest were they , and when they celebrate his funeral they need build no barrow . on this he sent the other princes away , save only the throat where the collar - bone , that severed his shoulder from his neck and back . he let both of them lie , and went in and out among the immortals . ilus begat laomedon , and laomedon begat tithonus , priam , lampus , clytius , and hiketaon of the race of mars , two sons of king thessalus the son of hercules . and with them there came thirty ships . the phoceans were led by schedius and epistrophus , sons of mighty iphitus the son of naubolus . these were they that held cyparissus , rocky pytho , holy crisa , daulis , and panopeus ; they also that dwelt in anemorea and hyampolis , and about the waters of the grey sea , but the waves as they come rolling in stay it that it can come no further , though all else is wrapped as with a mantle , so heavy are the heavens with snow even thus thickly did the stones fall on one side and then on the other ; his heart beats high , and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes ; therefore , send the people away and bid them prepare their meal ; king agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence of the assembled trojans , menelaus was the broader shouldered , but when both were seated ulysses had the more royal presence . after a time they delivered their message , and the speech of menelaus ran trippingly on the tongue ; he did not say much 
