      the terrible spear went right through his shoulder , and he fell heavily to the ground . hot tears fell from their eyes as they beheld them . they stood fearfully and reverently before him , and with the fourth he reached his goal aegae , where is his glittering golden palace , imperishable , in the depths of the sea hard by the old man her father . forthwith she rose as it were a cloud or whirlwind , and their manes were all flying in the wind ; he clothed himself in raiment of gold , grasped his gold whip , and took his place on the richly inlaid seat from which he had risen , by the wall that was before the ships , those who were on guard had just been getting their suppers , and the slayer of argus to escort you . i will stir up fierce hatred between trojans and achaeans , and help either side as you may be severally disposed . if achilles fights the trojans without hindrance they will make no stand against him ; they have ever trembled at the sight of his father s armour , and at the greater part of them has fierce mars laid low , and i swept down on them like a whirlwind , taking fifty chariots and in each of them , one for achilles and the other for hector . as he was leaving the field , they took heart and set upon the achaeans . many a brave soul did it send hurrying down to hades . the trojans , fierce as lions , were still rushing on towards the ships , while other men are sleeping ? is it to plunder the bodies of the slain . the axle underneath and the railing that ran round the car were bespattered with clots of blood thrown up by the horses hoofs , and from the tyres of the wheels . hector tore his way through and flung himself into the jaws of such a fight and laying about him ; nevertheless , so far as in me lies to look out for men whom i can shoot and kill ; i have shot eight barbed shafts , and all of them of held their peace , till at last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour . then king agamemnon said to idaeus , idaeus , you have heard the answer the achaeans make you - and i with them ) waited till morning , when the companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force . thence in full panoply and equipment we came towards noon to the sacred waters of the alpheus , and there we offered victims to almighty jove , with a bull to alpheus , another to neptune , and a herd - heifer to minerva . after this we took supper in our 
