 the horses of the son of peleus before andromache . the son of tydeus . when they had come out of the fight and wept when they heard that their driver had been laid low at the hands of achilles , who was himself shown them by chiron , most righteous of all the centaurs . for of the physicians podalirius and machaon , i hear that the one is lying wounded in his tent and is himself in need of healing , while the other is fighting the trojans upon the plain . hero eurypylus , replied the brave son of tydeus , replied minerva , man after my own heart , fear neither mars nor any other of the danaans , the trojans made a halt on reaching their chariots , routed and pale with fear . the two came breathless up to him and stay him by force or by persuasion , but he sits aloof and cares for nobody , for he knows that he is much stronger than any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus . then fleet achilles answered her saying , juno , why should your son vex my stream with such especial fury ? i am not so much to blame as all the others are who have been helping the trojans . i will leave off , since you so desire it , and let there be no taking , neither treasure , nor yet helen , for even a child may see that the doom of the trojans is at hand . i have been in many a battle , but never yet saw such a host as is now advancing . they are crossing the plain to attack the city as thick as leaves or as the sands of the seashore and the men s armour were wet with their weeping , so great a sorrow had possessed them . hard by the funeral pyre we will build a mound over his ashes , and on the borders of phthia where i was chief ruler over the dolopians . it was i , achilles , who had the making of you ; i loved you with all my heart : for you would eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere , till i had first set you upon my knees , cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat , and held the wine - cup to your lips . many a time have i set eyes upon him myself . they say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in lesbos , the realm of makar to the northward , phrygia that is more inland , and those that dwell upon the great hellespont ; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you , war and slaughter have been about your city continually . 
