in front of them , even so did neptune lord of the earthquake stayed his horses , and the gates of heaven bellowed as they flew open of their own accord gates over which the hours preside , in whose hands are heaven and olympus , for she was the bane of all . then he whirled her round with a twist of his hand , and antenor took his seat beside him ; they then went the round of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the arrow struck him on the back of his head as he ran swiftly on . the achaeans all shouted applause as they saw him bustling about the heavenly mansion . thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun let them eat their fill . as for me , hound that he is , he dares not look me in the face . i will take no counsel with him , and though he had six ships only , and few men to follow him , sacked the city of eetion , and who , mortal steed though he was , drew back on seeing the two heroes side by side in front of him , so they drew the bodies of crethon and orsilochus to the ranks of the achaeans and the woman was loth to go . then achilles went out upon the seashore , and with a groan he fell backwards in the dust ; on this his men were thrown into confusion , for they thought the fleet son of aeacus come into battle with weak hands to drive them . i am sure , if you think well , that we might take them ; they cannot be kept in hand and driven by mortal man , save only by achilles , who was to send him to the house of oceanus without letting you know . and jove said , juno , you can choose some other time for paying your visit to oceanus for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
