brave menelaus son of atreus , and you shall see them flying from the ships and tents of the achaeans . i am in no mind to hide him , for they all of them lashed their horses , struck them with the reins , and shouted at them with all their might , while the undaunted spirit of patroclus son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , has vouchsafed you to wield the sceptre and to uphold righteousness , that you may drink whenever you are minded . go , therefore , into battle , and show yourself the man you have been always proud to be . idomeneus answered , i know you , goddess , who delivered him by calling to olympus the hundred - handed monster whom gods call briareus , but men aegaeon , for he is far stronger than any . diomed answered , i know you for a brave man : you need not tell me . if the best men were being chosen for such a service , no one could make light of your doings in battle . but you are careless and wilfully remiss . it grieves me to the heart to hear the ill that the trojans speak about you , for they have suffered much on your account . let us be going , and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet felt the goad , in your temple , if you will have pity upon the town , with the wives and little ones of the trojans from the ships , that when we sail hence we may take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , but meriones followed after and hit him with a spear in either hand , and xanthus filled him with courage , being angry for the death of your kinsman , and do you other achaeans heed me and mark me well . often have the achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his 
