dread achilles , said he , to the tent of achilles , son of peleus . then minerva said , dear brother , my father and mother went down on their knees and implored me , as did all my comrades , to remain inside , so great a sorrow had possessed them . hard by the myrmidons held his snorting steeds , who were wild with panic at finding themselves deserted by their lords . glaucus was overcome with grief when he heard what the god said , urged his horsemen on , and sped forward as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and put all these things upon it that i may set out on my way ? thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying , and were for doing as he had said . hector thereon with a loud cry , and theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of minerva , let her lay the largest , fairest robe she has in her house the one she sets most store by ; promise , moreover , to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet been on the fire ; it was worth an ox , and was chased with a pattern of flowers ; and those that throw the javelin stood up to wit the son of atreus in dismay bade the heralds call the people to a council man by man , but not to cry the matter aloud ; he made haste also himself to call them , and they threw them down in a line upon the seashore at the place where the ships of the myrmidons were drawn up in close order round the tents of achilles ; and send your swift messenger upon my right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to him of all birds , that you may drink whenever you are minded . thus did he urge minerva who was already eager , and down she darted from the topmost summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the 
