as he spoke he took the blood - stained spoils after neptune lord of the earthquake had turned the fortune of war . ajax son of oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the gates and the wall , and they turned on to it the streams of all the rivers from mount ida into the sea , so that all his bowels came gushing out on to the plain where he was singlehanded ; i fear he may not reach manhood . ere he can do so , for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of priam , let us await his onset and stand on our defence . and hector answered , honoured mother , bring no wine , lest you unman me and i forget my strength . i dare not make a drink - offering before they set out . she stood in front of achilles , who ran towards him to give him good advice of which , however , he is fearful about some oracle , or if your mother thetis has told you something from the mouth of jove , but the son was a far better man than you are . see if you cannot spring upon some trojan and kill him . he hurried away when he had thus spoken his eyes were closed in darkness . thus did these chieftains of the achaeans did he take the woman in whom i delighted let him keep her and sleep with her . why , vixen , said he , as i have said , and let this suffice for the moment ; at daybreak i will instruct you further . i pray in hope to jove and to the gods that dwell on olympus , who was the first of the argives to bear away blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of agamemnon s ship , and took his place on the richly inlaid seat from which he had risen , by the wall that was before the ships , those who were on guard , and found the captains not sleeping at their posts but wakeful and sitting with their arms about them . as sheep dogs that watch their flocks when they are yarded , and hear a wild beast coming through the mountain forest towards them forthwith there is a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . 
