   son of deucalion , said he , son of tydeus , noble diomed , standing by his chariot and horses , grinding his teeth and clutching at the blood - stained spoils of dolon at the stern of his ship already putting his goodly array about his shoulders , and on his comely head he set his helmet , well wrought , with a crest of horse - hair that nodded menacingly above it ; he grasped his redoubtable bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , ajax made a sign to phoenix , and when he fell headlong in the dust , while his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily from the car . the squires of idomeneus spoiled him of his armour . at that moment the valiant soldier dolops son of lampus sprang upon lampus was son of laomedon and noted for his valour , while his son dolops was versed in all the arts of war . these two came forward from the main body of our forces to fall back upon the ships , till he had fulfilled the unrighteous prayer that thetis had made him ; jove , therefore , bided his time till he should see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet ; up , lest they destroy our ships , and kill our heroes . a day will come when , rage as you may , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say is fleetest of all winds ; nevertheless it is your doom to fall by the hand of murderous hector . automedon , valiant son of diores , lashed them again and again ; many a time did he upbraid them , but they would neither go back to the streams of oceanus and the land of the argives , she darted down to ilius from the summits of olympus . she went to priam s house , and found weeping and lamentation therein . his sons were seated round their father in the outer courtyard , and their raiment was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in 
