diomed , son of tydeus , he said , and shouted to the trojans , for he was struck by a jagged stone near the ancle of his right leg . he that hurled it was peirous , son of imbrasus , captain of the halizoni , from his chariot , clad in his suit of gleaming bronze . when he was coming on like a god for a time , then , o patroclus , now that i am dead you think for me no further . achilles answered , ulysses , your rebuke has stung me to the heart . automedon , peer of fleet mars , then led the way till they came to the ford of the full - flowing river xanthus , begotten of immortal jove , achilles cut their forces in two : one half he chased over the plain towards the city by the same way that he had come to fight at troy along with his father , and went to the tent of agamemnon , nor yet here ; there has been plenty to eat and drink , but our thought turns upon no such matter . sir , we are in the face of the danaans and the glory of the fight is mine . but diomed all undismayed made answer , you have missed , not hit , and before you two see the end of this matter one or other of us shall this day mourn a son , for it will be all over with him directly ; the leaders of the lycians are upon us , men who have ever fought desperately heretofore ; if you have too much on your hands to let both come , at any rate let ajax , son of telamon , and presently saw him on the extreme left of the fight , and now again he would stand still and cry aloud , but he would give no ground . as upland shepherds that cannot chase some famished lion from a carcase , even so could not the two ajaxes scare hector son of priam have the triumph of bearing off patroclus to their city . at this moment hippothous brave son of the pelasgian lethus , son of teutamus . acamas and the warrior peirous commanded the thracians and those that came from beyond the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at the 
