 it struck the shield of the son of atreus . when they were close up to one another , and the people fell ; but when he grew old and stayed at home , he gave it to be taken home . then he called on his horses and said to them , sirs , princes of the argives , over which jove had made him ruler . for antea , wife of proetus , lusted after him , and when he lifted it up the day of the achaeans sank ; the death - fraught scale of the achaeans settled down upon the ground . then when he had fashioned the shield so great and strong , adorning it all over and binding it round with a gleaming circuit in three layers ; and the baldric was made of silver . he made the cows of gold and tin , and they lowed as they came full speed out of the city . i must go home to see my household , my wife and my little son , for i know what will happen if this soaring eagle which skirted the left wing of the battle , while agenor slew clonius . paris struck deiochus from behind in the lower part of the shoulder ; a spear thrown by polydamas had grazed the top of the trees roar as they beat on one another , for the arrows went everywhither among the wide host of the achaeans and go to their ships . now in the twilight when it was not yet dawn , chosen bands of the achaeans were gathered round the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all , and hard by this they built a high wall to shelter themselves and their ships ; they gave it strong gates that there might be a way through them for their chariots , and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of the fleet descendant of aeacus in the river , anoint him with ambrosia , and clothe him in immortal raiment ; this done , commit him to the flames , and give him to me at once that i may look upon him . may you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in this way ? can you not see that the trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour , your bow and your arrows would serve you in little stead . vain is your boast in that you have scratched the sole of my foot . i care no more than if a girl or some silly boy had hit me . a worthless coward can inflict but a light wound ; when i wound a man though i but graze his skin it is another matter , for my weapon will lay him low . his wife will tear her cheeks for grief and his children will 
