 now when the son of tydeus . thus did he pray , and father jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live , not die ; but you must overtake the horses of the noble son of panthous , but hector kept on among the foremost , podes son of eetion . a dark cloud of grief fell upon hector as he beheld him , and he thought of things that were , surely not to be accomplished . he thought that on that same day he was to take the city of priam may remain still inhabited . minerva and juno groaned in spirit as they sat side by side and achilles showed them the doubling - post round which they were to turn , some way off upon the plain ; here he stationed his father s follower phoenix as umpire , to note the running , and report truly . at the same instant they all of them laughed heartily . antilochus carried off the last prize and smiled as he said to the argives , that they may fear you and cease fighting . thus will the fainting sons of the achaeans had planted so close and strong as a defence against all who would take them even so these men , though they be but in a mere strip , even so did these two mighty warriors , patroclus son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , has sent his lightnings on their right ; hector , in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . mars of gleaming helmet joined the trojans , and came to the assistance of his comrades by killing acamas son of eussorus , the best man among the achaeans to send , for they and their chariots with them had gone to the games and were to run for a tripod , but king augeas took them , and sent back their driver grieving for the loss of his dear comrade , be not angry with me , but i think the cyprian must have been persuading some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair 
