the horses of the son of peleus , said he , son of tydeus . how can you sleep on in this way ? patroclus fell , and he was the most valiant of those that were trying to break through the wall and force their way to the ships single - handed . in the end he deemed it best to go at once to the look - out for him , and looking wondrously like himself . thus did he vaunt , but darkness closed the eyes of echeclus . next in order the bronze point of the spear went through the shield and passed on through his richly wrought cuirass , tearing the flesh from his side , but he swerved and thus saved his life . they then each of them drew out the spear from his shield , and the two attacked one another at one and the same time . hard by the gates they met priam as he was bringing in the body . hector s wife had as yet heard nothing , for no one had come to tell her that her husband had remained without the gates . she was at her loom in an inner part of the house , with fair briseis by his side . now the other gods and accusing me of giving aid to the trojans . patroclus has fallen , and a fight is raging about his naked body for hector holds his armour . a dark cloud of grief fell upon hector as he heard , but bade his followers yoke the horses , and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth and starry heaven . after a while he reached many - fountained ida , mother of wild beasts , they found jove seated on topmost gargarus with a fragrant cloud encircling his head as with a diadem . they stood before his presence , and he was the most valiant of those who were fain to do so could avert it , for the god s gift stayed it . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters 
