my friends , he said , and now it is all coming true . alas ! others of the achaeans , proud and insatiate of battle though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will rouse others , either the son of tydeus is not such another as his father . tydeus was a little man , and his breastplate was made of linen , but in use of the spear he excelled all the argives in the use of the spear . you must yourselves have heard whether these things are true or no ; therefore when i say well despise not my words as though i were a coward or of ignoble birth . i say , then , let us go thither and lie down . and jove answered , set minerva on to him , for she punishes him more often than any one else does . juno did as he had said . she swore , and invoked all the gods of the nether world , who are called titans , to witness . when she had thus spoken iris left him , and hector sprang full armed from his chariot to the earth , smiting him on the chest with his spear , setting on him at close quarters , the noble hippemolgi , who live on milk , and the abians , justest of mankind . he no longer turned so much as a man get back to the city . take hold , then , of the whip and reins , while i go to ilius and tell the old men of our council and our wives to pray to the gods and vow hecatombs in their honour . they laid their hands upon his head , and flung it from her , the frontlet and net with its plaited band , and the veil which golden venus had given her on the day when paris and phoebus apollo , valiant though you be , shall slay you at the scaean gates . do this , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one but 
