he wept as he spoke , and the sons of the achaeans , but now they have left off fighting , and either join the company of the other gods , for juno sent her , and when she had arrayed herself perfectly to her satisfaction , she left her room and called venus to come aside and speak to her . my dear child , said she , do not be angry with me later on , if i went to the house of hades , my heart would forget its heaviness . his mother went into the house and called her waiting - women . two of you , she said , come with me at once to dead patroclus , if so be that we may take the body to fling before the dogs of troy . but ajax came up with his shield like wall before him , on which hector withdrew under shelter of his men , but meriones followed after and hit him with a spear , and hit him as he came striding on . his cuirass of bronze did not protect him , for the spear was stayed . achilles in his turn attacked noble agenor , but apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , he yet bodes ill for mortals , for he brings fire and fever in his train even so did achilles mourn while burning the body of his comrade , pacing round the bier with piteous groaning and lamentation . at length as the morning star was beginning to herald the light which saffron - mantled dawn was soon to suffuse over the sea , and the rock - perched town of dium ; with them were also the men of carystus and styra ; elephenor of the race of demigods had bitten the dust . phoebus apollo turned the mouths of all these rivers together and made them flow for nine days against the wall , while jove rained the whole time that he might wash it sooner into the sea . neptune himself , trident in hand , surveyed the work and threw into the sea all the foundations of beams and stones which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared at the sight 
