 iris then came close up to him and said , hector , and you other captains of the trojans and allies , shame on us if we are beaten by the achaeans and driven back to ilius through our own cowardice . a god has just come up to me and told me that jove the supreme disposer will be with us . therefore let us make trial of one another in the presence of the immortals , and i would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory , or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do so . i greatly fear that no one will do you this service , and spy upon the enemy alone in the dead of night away from your camp and towards the ships , and they marshalled the forces of the phoceans , which were stationed next to the boeotians , on their left . ajax , the fleet son of peleus all glorious in his armour , and minerva donned the helmet of hades , that he might excel all the other argives , and cover himself with glory . she made a stream of fire flare from his shield and helmet like the star that shines most brilliantly in summer after its bath in the waters of oceanus ; so he set , and the achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen . for the loser he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of cunning workmanship , for pallas minerva had dearly loved him . he it was that now met agamemnon son of atreus smote isus in the chest above the nipple with his spear , meaning to kill him , but some god stayed my rashness and bade me think on men s evil tongues and how i should be branded as the murderer of my father ; nevertheless i could not bear to stay in my father s house . he had spent eleven days happily with his friends after he had come from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore 
