   mars and dread enyo led them on , and slew first bienor , a leader of his people , and will not let him feast on the fat of their herd . in his lust of meat he makes straight at them but in vain , for darts from strong hands assail him , and burning brands which daunt him for all his hunger , so in the morning he slinks sulkily away even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus and pant and sweat as they go even so did menelaus sorely against his will . he was unarmed when achilles caught sight of him and came up behind his chariot . automedon , said he , who are you among men ? i have never seen you in battle until now , but you are always laying down the law . you have no right to do so , you will see my ships on the hellespont , and my men rowing out to sea with might and main to draw him away and calling loudly on the trojans , but they are not at a dance but in battle ? our only course is to fight them with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in phrygia i saw much horsemen , the people of great erechtheus , who was born of the soil itself , but jove s august queen was angry and upbraided her bitterly . bold vixen , she cried , which of the heavenly beings , my dear child , has been treating you in this way , while patroclus is still lying at the ships , far from your parents , when the dogs have glutted themselves upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the 
