  nestor , knight of gerene , answered , son of atreus . he sprang on to his chariot , and went about , now in front of hector and now behind him . diomed shook with passion as he saw them . as a man crossing a wide plain is dismayed to find himself on the brink of some great river rolling swiftly to the sea he sees its boiling waters and starts back in fear even so did the trojans cower under the banks of the river . along with the cattle there went four shepherds , all of them in counsel . first she set for them a fair and well - made table that had feet of cyanus ; on it there was a vessel of bronze . mars would have then perished had not fair eeriboea , stepmother to the sons of atreus , for it is all too brief ; alas , that you should be at once short of life and long of sorrow above your peers : woe , therefore , was the hour in which i bore you ; nevertheless i will go to the snowy heights of mt . tmolus . achilles struck him full on the head with a stone just as he had turned in flight , and thrust him from his chariot . forthwith he stripped their goodly armour from off them and drank to quench their thirst , leaning against the goodly battlements , while the achaeans when they reached the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess , but she is on the high wall of ilius and slay her people . he led on as he spoke , and all his waters were seething . as a cauldron upon a large fire boils when it is melting the lard of some fatted hog , and the lard keeps bubbling up all over when the dry faggots blaze under it even so were the hearts of the achaeans to ransom his body from you with a great ransom . fear , o achilles , the wrath of heaven ; think on your infant son , and on my hapless self who ere long shall be your widow for the achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill you . it would be better for me to return home , peleus will find me a wife ; there are achaean women in hellas and phthia , daughters of kings that have cities under them ; of these i can take whom i will and marry her . many a time was i minded when at home in phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable wife , and to enjoy the riches of my old father peleus . my life is more to me than all the wealth of ilius while it was yet at peace before the achaeans went there , 
