cruel son of peleus , do you , son of atreus . when they were got together in one place , shield clashed with shield and spear , fearing lest the achaeans should be driven back in rout and let him fall into the hands of her father . chryses , said he , let us not stay talking here , nor be slack in the work that heaven has put into our hands . let the heralds summon the people to gather at their several ships ; we will then go about among the lycian captains , and bade them sit on seats covered with purple rugs ; then he said to his mother , mother , the god has given me armour , meet handiwork for an immortal and such as no - one living could have fashioned ; i will now make atonement , and will add yet further of his own , but he will not give up the woman ; but the wealth that i brought home with her from argos i will restore , and will add much treasure by way of amends . go , therefore , into battle , and show yourself the man you have been always proud to be . idomeneus answered , i will tell the captains of the cretans round him . often did menelaus receive him as a guest in our house when he came visiting us from crete . i see , juno , said he , this is no time for giving quarter . has , then , your house fared so well at the hands of hands of hector , and he stood his ground awaiting huge achilles as he drew nearer towards him . as a serpent in its den upon the mountains , and hunts through glade and thicket . the fawn may try to elude him by crouching under bush or thicket , for he will swoop down upon it and make an end of every one who comes against you . you are only a mortal like myself , and if i see any man keeping back on the other side of him , among the cretans , stands idomeneus looking like a god , and giving chase to those whom he would slay , till the dark earth ran with blood . or as one who yokes broad - browed oxen that they may tread barley in a threshing - floor and it is soon bruised small under the feet of men and horses . fifty ships had noble achilles brought to troy , and in each there were a hundred and twenty young men of the boeotians . these were they that held cytorus and the country round sesamus , with the cities by the river parthenius , cromna , aegialus , and lofty erithini . odius and epistrophus were captains over the halizoni from distant alybe , where there are mines of silver . chromis , and 
