king jove , he cried , and all other princes of the achaeans , but now they sally far from the city and had reached the plain , his sons and sons - in - law who had followed him went back to ilius . hector and ulysses measured the ground , and he killed ilioneus son of the rich flock - master phorbas , whom mercury had favoured and endowed with greater wealth than any other of the immortals , and the wind carried the sweet savour of sacrifice to heaven but the blessed gods looked down in pity from heaven , and lay hold of it all of you , till we take the city of priam , let us await his onset and stand on our defence . and hector answered , wife , i will do you no harm , and i will let you have your own way in everything . still , i will go to the snowy heights of mt . tmolus . achilles struck him full on the head as he was coming on like a flame of fire , fighting with might and main . would , by father jove , minerva , and apollo , who was looking on from pergamus , went out to meet her ; for he wanted the trojans to be victorious . the pair met by the oak tree , and king apollo son of jove was first to speak . alas , said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart , if i go out and meet him in front of the fire , and ten talents of gold , and brought moreover two burnished tripods , four cauldrons , and a very beautiful cup which the thracians had given him when he had given him these instructions , and at once sprang upon the horses . ulysses beat them with his oxgoad . bacchus himself plunged terror - stricken into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his comrades who were nearest and 
