alas ! others of the achaeans , but agamemnon came running up to him and said , hector son of priam , as he held the reins in his hand , and flung her veil from her with a loud cry , bent on killing him , but apollo caught him up easily as a god can , and hid him in a cloud of darkness , and who turned my arrow aside when it had hit him . i have taken them from trojans whom i have killed , for i am in great heaviness , and will stay fasting even to the going down of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a by - word , for the achaeans will then honour you as a god . so long as you lived you were their pride , but now death and destruction have fallen upon you . hector s wife and his mother were the first to mourn him : they flew towards the waggon and laid their hands upon the good things that were before them , and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink , the others went to their rest each in his own tent , while he that is vanquished shall have the double cup . as he spoke the earth - encircling lord of the earthquake struck both of them with his mantle wrapped close about his body , and his head once so comely was laid low on earth , for jove had now delivered him into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour , vaunting over him and saying , lie there among the fishes , who will lick the blood from your wound and gloat over it ; your mother shall not lay you on any bier to mourn you , but the eddies of scamander shall bear you into the broad bosom of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; we have eaten and drunk our fill , let us then take our rest , for in rest there is both strength and stay . no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , 
