 hither of set purpose did he direct his horses , and the son of pelegon answered , great son of peleus , when he had seen the wound , he wiped away the blood and applied some soothing drugs which chiron had given to aesculapius out of the good will he bore him . while they were spoiling these heroes of their armour , the achaeans were flying pell - mell before the trojans . as when there is a heavy swell upon the sea , and on the morning of the tenth day with many tears they singled out the whitened bones of their loved comrade and laid them within a golden urn in two layers of fat : they then covered the urn with a linen cloth from head to foot , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , flung the skin of a panther , his bow , and took his place in the front ranks , menelaus going with him . hector had stripped patroclus of his armour , and was dragging him away to cut off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his son . at first the trojans drove the achaeans back , and they withdrew from the dead man daunted . the trojans did not succeed in taking it home to her little ones , even so was the fight balanced evenly between them till the time came when jove gave the greater glory to hector son of priam shall drive neither you nor your chariot . i will not marry his daughter ; she may be fair as venus , and skilful as minerva , but i will have none of her : let another take her , who may be trusted . the old man next looked upon ulysses ; tell me , he said , your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire ; you shall look upon him when you take him away at daybreak ; for the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another . never yet have i been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as i am at this moment for yourself not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they 
