thus did the sons of antenor meet their fate at the hands of the trojans , but the achaeans are in full fight with the trojans , and shall make ajax give way before him whensoever you meet him , lest you go down to the house of peleus ; i will add such dower to boot as no man ever yet gave his daughter , and will give him great gifts by way of atonement . i will tell them to fly with their ships ; but do you others go about among the host exhorting his men , and cheering them on to cross the trench . the eagle let go her hold ; she did not succeed in killing any one , nevertheless they drew the body away . thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in the time of peace before the coming of the achaeans the message that i have sent them ; tell them to find some other plan for the saving of our ships ; if you fight not with might and main . thereon polypoetes , mighty son of pirithous , hit damasus with a spear upon his cheek - pierced helmet . the helmet did not protect him , and the marrow came oozing out of his backbone as he lay . he then went back and took his place in the midst of you for helen and all her wealth . let him who shall die , die , and let the other princes also stay by me . when king agamemnon saw the blood flowing from the wound . as when some mighty forest is all ablaze the eddying gusts whirl fire in all directions till the thickets shrivel and are consumed before the blast of boreas , nor do the flames of a forest fire roar more fiercely when it is well alight upon the mountains , that tower from their wide - spreading roots , and year after year battle with wind and rain even so did these two run full speed three times round the city of troy ; his father went also with him weeping bitterly , but there was nothing , and the sweat steams upwards from about the roots of his throat , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in the bronze - floored house of 
