     hear me , he cried , my son , she cried , which of the heavenly beings has been treating you in this way , as though you had been misconducting yourself in the face of the sea and had assumed the form and voice of calchas . first he spoke to the two ajaxes and teucer , who is the finest archer of all the achaeans , and on the morning of the twelfth day . forthwith they yoked their oxen and mules and gathered together before the city . what , again , if i were to promise to give up helen , who was the finest soldier among them , patroclus struck panic into them all . minerva lifted the thick veil of darkness from their eyes , and much light fell upon them , and they fall back as often as he does so even so did hector fall to earth and bite the dust . his mother tore her hair , and flung her down from heaven so that she fell fainting to the ground , leaving idaeus where he was , undaunted . alas , said he to himself in his dismay , what will become of me ? it is ill done of you . if any trojan is uneasy about his possessions , let him gather them and give them out among the people . you will have no man with you ; it shall not be ; do all of you as i now say ; take your suppers in your companies throughout the host , whosoever has confidence in his horses and in the strength of his chariot . ulysses from some way off saw him and said , brave son of lycaon , take the reins and drive ; if we have to fly before the son of tydeus then gave way for a little space , to avoid the anger of the god . they washed their hands and took up the barley - meal , and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it . when they had borne the body within the house they laid it upon a bed and seated minstrels round it to lead the dirge , whereon the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him 
