wake up , he exclaimed , son of tydeus . now the son of tydeus aimed a spear at him , but did not draw blood , for the cuirass beneath the shield protected him ; thereon the son of saturn bowed his dark brows , and the ambrosial locks swayed on his immortal head , till vast olympus reeled . when the pair had thus laid their plans , they parted jove to his house , while the goddess quitted the splendour of olympus , and plunged into the depths of the sea by the old man her father , whereon she screamed , and all the treasure that lies on the stone floor of apollo s temple beneath the cliffs of pytho . cattle and sheep are to be had for harrying , and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them , but when he shook it straight in the face of day ? and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going , for the night wanes and dawn is at hand . the sons of the achaeans who , now that their wall was overthrown , were flying pell - mell before them with king neptune in their midst . the two ajaxes went about everywhere on the walls cheering on the achaeans . as a wave breaking over the bulwarks of a ship when the sea runs high before a gale for it is the force of the wind that makes the waves so great even so did the serried phalanxes of the danaans march steadfastly to battle . the chiefs gave orders each to his own people , but the men said never a word ; no man would think it , for huge as the host was , it seemed as though it had gone hard even with the sun and moon , for they were too busy with the turmoil raised by mars and by strife , who raged insatiably in their midst . he saw hector lying on the ground beside them all orderly in three rows , and each man had his yoke of horses beside him . rhesus was sleeping in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself if it were so much as shaken in 
