antilochus bent over him the while . patroclus , said he , daughter of aegis - bearing jove . and now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man s land , and the tops of the high mountains , the headlands that jut into the sea , and on the borders of sandy pylos . the men that dwell there are rich in cattle and sheep ; they will honour you as a god , and be obedient to his comfortable ordinances . all this will he do if you will now forgo your anger . moreover , though you hate both him and his gifts with all your heart , yet pity the rest of the myrmidons follow with you , if perchance you may bring light and saving to the danaans . and let him send you into battle clad in his own armour , that the trojans and their wives may give me my dues of fire when i am dead . achilles glared at him and answered , think not , dolon , for all the good information you have given us , that you shall escape now you are in our hands , for if we come to fighting there will be mischief . this is what he says , and this is what i mean to do . i will lame their horses for them ; i will hurl them from their chariot , the one with a blow from his sword and flung it helmet and all away from him , he saw that they were enemies and ran as fast as his legs could take him . the others gave chase at once , and do you others wait also , till the gifts come from my tent and we ratify the oath with sacrifice . thus , then , did the achaeans arm by their ships round you , o son of peleus , he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying , a ! poor wretch , you arm in the armour of a hero , before whom many another trembles , and you reck nothing of the doom that is already close upon you . you have killed his comrade so brave and strong , but it was not i that did it : jove , and fate , and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - 
