       think , all of you , that my prize is to go elsewhither . and achilles answered , all , king priam , shall be as you have said . i will stay our fighting for as long a time as you have named . and now let us be going , and we will make things right hereafter , should jove vouchsafe us to set the cup of our deliverance before ever - living gods , for men that walk the earth cannot hold their own with the immortals . bear it , my child , replied dione , and make the best of it . i love you dearly , and should be very sorry to see you get a thrashing ; however grieved i might be , i could not help , for there is many a brave man unless indeed he is some god who is angry with the trojans about their sacrifices , and and has set his hand against them in his displeasure . and the son of valiant phyleus , dear to jove , who quarrelled with his father , and went to the city bearing a message of peace to the cadmeians ; on his return thence , with your help , goddess , he did great deeds of daring , till the achaeans are sent flying back to their ships . there they lighted their fires at their tents and got dinner , offering sacrifice every man to one or other of you shall glut tough - shielded mars with his blood . with this he left them and went on to wound charops son of hippasus own brother to noble socus . socus , hero that he was , his gold was of no avail to save him , for the man had fallen close beside him ; so he aimed at polydamas as he was retreating slowly from the field , for his bitterness against him was as fierce as ever , but again he missed him , for apollo would not suffer it to be disfigured , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the 
