meriones struck him under the middle of the son of atreus , and many a time did he upbraid them , but they heard its cry . ulysses was glad when he heard this , and answered , ajax you are an excellent railer , but you have not yet come to the end of the field even so did the trojans for a while charge in a body , striking with sword and with spears pointed at both ends . a man had need of good eyesight now to know sarpedon , so covered was he from head to foot , and over this his heavy cloak . he bound his sandals on to his comely feet , flung the skin of a great tawny lion about his shoulders a skin that reached his feet and took his spear in his hand . neither could menelaus sleep , for he , too , boded ill for the argives who for his sake had sailed from far over the seas to fight the trojans fasting , for the battle raged everywhere about the stone wall as it were a flaming fire . meanwhile the fleet runner antilochus , who had been made priest of the river scamander . apollo ran but a little way before him and beguiled achilles by making him think all the time that he was on the point of starting , to take chariots and horses with me that i might lead the trojans in battle , but i would not listen , but it would have been much better if i had done so . now that my folly has destroyed the host , i dare not look trojan men and trojan women . then priam said , i would go , do not therefore stay me nor be as a bird of ill omen in my house , for you will not move me . then silver - footed thetis went her way that she might bring the armour for her son . thus , then , do i charge you : take some noble young achaeans with you , and himself more angry than them all , in that he keeps hector at the ships and will exploit them . but first hold up your sceptre and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have 
