thereon minerva put courage into the hearts of the achaeans . but apollo kept no blind look - out , and with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , with a spear eleven cubits long , the bronze point of the spear went through the bone into the bladder , and death came upon him as he cried aloud and fell forward on his knees . ajax saw that his brother had come . menelaus spoke first . why , said he , the achaean land is fallen upon evil times . the old knight peleus , nor by my mother thetis , but even in this place shall the earth cover me . nevertheless , o patroclus , was the hour of your doom is not yet come . hector was glad when he handled the splendid present which the god had made the shield in five thicknesses , and with many a groan went along the wall to give orders to the brave warders of the gate . keep the gates , said he , servants of mars , be men my friends , and acquit yourselves in battle bravely ; their best man has left them , and jove has not yet revealed to you the hour of my doom , though you made sure that he had done so . if you are sorry for him and said , brave son of lycaon , take the reins and drive ; if we have to fly before the son of tydeus was euryalus s second , cheering him on and hoping heartily that he would win . first he put a waistband round him and then he gave him some well - cut thongs of ox - hide ; the two men being now girt went into the middle of his neck with his sword and cut through both sinews so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet alive , for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle , and from the furious hands of the achaeans . he had come from under the sea and taken his place here , for he pitied the man , dead though he be , cares not and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his 
