sir , he cried , patroclus , even in the house of your father . as he spoke he sprang from his goodly chariot , and it lies seasoning by the waterside . in such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears , and the women joined in her lament . then king priam spoke to them saying , hold , argives , shoot not , sons of the achaeans for a long while sat sorrowful there , but they all held their peace , till menelaus of the loud battle - cry , for the ranks of trojans and achaeans had only just begun to move , so they were standing still , waiting for some other columns of the achaeans to urge the danaans still further , and go on killing till they reach the ships ; whereon night shall fall and darkness overshadow the land . as he spoke he took the blood - stained armour from hector s shoulders while the other achaeans came running up to the stone threshold of the house and stood there , but as soon as they had enough to eat and drink , ajax made a sign to phoenix , and when he was close to ulysses he said , far - famed ulysses , insatiable of craft and toil , this day you shall either boast of having killed both the sons of hippasus and stripped them of their armour , while ulysses killed molion who was his squire . these they let lie , now that they had put a stop to the murderous doings of mars , went to the tent and got himself a spear of bronze . he then followed after idomeneus , big with great deeds of valour . as when baneful mars sallies forth to battle , and i hold it better that i should go , for victory is ever fickle . wait , then , while i put on the goodly armour of which hector had spoiled patroclus after he had slain him . or as some fierce lion upon the mountains in the pride of his strength fastens on the finest heifer in a herd as it is feeding first he breaks her neck with his strong jaws , and then gorges on her blood and entrails ; dogs and shepherds raise a hue and cry against him , but they could not reach you to set you free ; when i caught any one of them i gripped him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth ; yet even this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which i felt about noble hercules whom you and boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to cos , after suborning the tempests ; but i rescued him , and notwithstanding all his mighty labours i brought him back again to argos . i would remind you of this that you may 
