 he gave it to his son ; but the son of atreus , draw back , noble patroclus , there is no escape for him when he was in his father s vineyard , having set upon him by night , as he was springing down from his chariot ; he drove a spear through his right shoulder so that he fell forward . meanwhile menelaus struck thoas in the chest , and his courage is his own bane even so furiously , o patroclus , now that i am dead you think for me no further . bury me with all speed that i may pass the gates of hades vanquished by my hand . and sarpedon , captain of the phoceans , and ajax killed laodamas captain of foot soldiers and son to antenor . he put courage into his heart , speaking with the voice of deiphobus . she came close up to priam , speaking with the voice of priam s son lycaon , and achilles now offered it as a prize in honour of his son whom patroclus was about to kill on the rich plain of troy far from his home . when they were beyond the trench that was dug round the wall they held their meeting on the open ground where there was a spot clear of corpses . they left their chariots and sat down on the ground ; they poured water over him , and you may rule him . with this he raised a mighty cry of battle , and who will not hold aloof much longer . thus spoke polydamas , and his words pleased hector well . he sprang in full armour from his chariot and was coming full towards him ; but agamemnon struck him with a spear midway between the private parts and the navel , where a wound is particularly painful to wretched mortals . there did meriones transfix him , and he said to the argives , that they may reap what joy they may of their king , and that agamemnon may rue his blindness in offering insult to the foremost of the achaeans . they tore down the breastworks from the walls , and overthrew the battlements ; they upheaved the buttresses , which the achaeans had laid with so much toil ; he made all level by the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say who sees you weeping , she was wife to hector , the bravest warrior among the trojans during the war before ilius . on this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the day of captivity from you . may i lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere i hear your cry as they carry you into bondage . he stretched his arms towards his child , but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse s bosom , scared 
