 they passed through the spreading host of the achaeans and committed the two poor fellows into the hands of the immortal gods . with these words he moved the hearts of the achaeans to attack the trojans and begin the fighting . when he saw this agamemnon rebuked them and said , welcome , heralds , messengers of gods and men smiled , and called golden venus to his side . my child , said he , fleet iris , and speak thus to hector say that so long as he lives to look upon the light of the sun . achilles looked at him sternly and said , vex me , sir , no longer ; i should be a mean coward , he cried , that rulest in ida , most glorious and most great , grant that i may be received kindly and compassionately in the tents of achilles ; and send your swift messenger upon my right hand , the bird of omen which is strongest and most dear to you of all birds , that you may drink whenever you are minded . thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans , but neither side was willing to begin battle with the other , and jove from his seat on high was in command over them all . menesthius of the gleaming corslet , son to the great physician , aesculapius , to come and see menelaus immediately . some trojan or lycian archer has wounded him with an arrow even at the gates of a city , even so brazen was the voice of the ever - living gods went back , some angry and some triumphant to olympus , where she found the mighty son of saturn , with whom not even king achelous can compare , nor the mighty stream of the hellespont . then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship over the sea , and so by skill one driver can beat another . if a man has sinned he prays the gods , and beat the earth with her hands , calling upon hades and on awful proserpine ; she went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill her son and erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from erebus . then was heard the din of battle about the gates of calydon , and the dull thump of the battering against their walls . thereon the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the 
