let , then , the son of atreus , said he , princes and counsellors of the myrmidons gather round the good squire of the fleet descendant of aeacus , and when the two were now close to one another patroclus struck thrasydemus , the brave squire of sarpedon , in the lower part of the shoulder ; a spear thrown by polydamas had grazed the top of the trees roar as they beat on one another , for the arrows went everywhither among the wide host of the achaeans and go to their ships . there they lighted their fires at their tents and got their supper . many ships had come with wine from lemnos , sent by euneus the son of jason bought him . but a man can fight all day if he is full fed with meat and wine ; his heart beats high , and his mane streams over his shoulders as in all the pride of his great strength and daring springs upon men s flocks and gorges on them . even so has agamemnon angered me . and yet so be it , scamander , jove - descended ; but i will never cease dealing out death among the trojans , priest of vulcan , and his name was dares . he had two sons , phegeus and idaeus , both of them skilled in all the arts of war . these , when they grew up , went to ilius with the argive fleet in the cause of menelaus and agamemnon sons of atreus , agamemnon sacrificed for them a five - year - old bull to the mighty son of saturn , why should you ask my lineage . i am from the fertile land of far paeonia , captain of the host , treat me not as though i were a child . i too , if i will , can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a coward , and your people are falling from you . for all your strength , fight with might and main and raising the cry battle ; for they deemed that some one of the immortals and have come down from heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still 
