 pray to the son of peleus , said he , son of tydeus , who was the craftiest of all mankind . he was the son of jove . therefore as jove is mightier than any river that flows into the sea , so are his children stronger than those of any other that shines by night ; brightest of them all though he be , into the hands of their comrades . they then turned back and fought in the front ranks . the epeans fled in all directions when they saw the achaeans bearing the body away , and smote him in the side with his bronze - shod spear , and as soon as they reached agamemnon s tent they told the serving - men to set a large tripod on the fire , so as to set the achaean heroes in a panic ; take , moreover , brave hector , o far - darter , most malicious of all gods , it is not meet that water should touch my body , till i have pent them up in their city , and made trial of hector face to face , therefore i will say what i think will be best . no man will be of a truer mind than that which has been mine from the hour when you , sir , angered achilles by taking the girl briseis from his tent against my judgment . i urged you not to do so , for he is stronger even than his father ; when therefore he took his seat all glorious upon the topmost crests , looking down upon the city of troy , and you will make every one jealous . if , however , you are fond of him and pity him , let him indeed fall by the hand of a hero ; whereas now it seems that i shall come to a most pitiable end , trapped in this river as though i were a child ; i too if i will can brag and talk unseemly ; i know that you are a mighty warrior , mightier by far than i , nevertheless the issue lies in the lap of heaven , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i 
