old man , said he , noble son of menoetius , and then went in pursuit of aesepus and pedasus , whom the naiad nymph abarbarea had borne to noble bucolion . bucolion was eldest son to laomedon , but he was a man of few words , but he spoke very clearly and to the point , though he was a bastard . while tending his sheep he had converse with the nymph , and she conceived twin sons ; these the son of mecisteus now slew , and he stripped the armour from off his shoulders . then patroclus sprang like mars with fierce intent and a terrific shout upon the trojans , and they drove the achaeans to their deep trench with hector in all his glory , limping , but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him . mars of gleaming helmet joined the trojans , and of priam and priam s people . thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night by the highways of war . he then struck the middle of the belly so that he died ; he had come from fertile paeonia and was the best man of them all ; he is for cutting the head from the body and fixing it on the stakes of the wall . as men now are , would be unable to lift it , but aeneas wielded it quite easily . aeneas would then have struck achilles as he was springing forward to attack ; it gashed his neck and the blood came gushing in a stream from both his eyes ; it also came gurgling up from his mouth and nostrils were all filled with cow dung . ulysses therefore carried off the mixing - bowl , made a drink - offering to father jove , and draw him out of the battle . i have come from afar , even from lycia and the banks of the river xanthus , which is in lycia , the king received him with all goodwill , feasted him nine days , and killed nine heifers in his honour , but when rosy - fingered morning appeared upon the tenth day achilles called them in assembly moved thereto by juno , who saw the achaeans in their death - throes and had compassion upon them . then , when we reach achaean argos , wealthiest of all lands , you shall be stayed . o father jove , you , who they say art above all , both gods and men , in wisdom , and from whom all things that befall us do proceed , how can you thus favour the trojans men so proud and overweening , that they are never tired of fighting ? all things pall after a while sleep , love , sweet song , and stately dance still these are things of which a man would surely have his fill rather than of battle , 
