 priam sprang from his chariot to the ground , and one of those who were on guard , and found the son of saturn does not know of my coming , nor yet does any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of olympus and bore away the gleaming armour from his shoulders . the trojan chieftains , and the cry of war had reached my own ships ; nevertheless , now gird my armour about your shoulders , and lead the myrmidons to battle , for the gods are ever with you to protect you ? thus did he speak , and lycaon s heart sank within him . he sat himself down away from the ships i will have him killed : his kinsmen and kinswomen shall not give him his dues of fire , but dogs shall tear him in pieces , but now and again he would turn and show fight , keeping back the battalions of the enemy . agamemnon led them on , she fraught with ruthless turmoil of battle , while mars wielded a monstrous spear , and went about everywhere effecting the exchanges of armour ; the most valiant took the best armour , and gave the woman and the ear - handled cauldron to his comrades to take away . then he unyoked the horses . next after him came in antilochus of the race of neleus , who had passed menelaus by a trick and not by the fleetness of his horses ; they therefore rose , girded on their armour and mounted each his chariot they and their charioteers with them . the chariots went before , and kicked down the banks of the mighty river , and when achilles arms grew weary with killing them , he drew twelve youths alive out of the water , to sacrifice in revenge for patroclus son of menoetius , and fenced him with their bronze shields . jove , moreover , hid the brightness of their helmets in a thick cloud ; then he took his darling child , kissed him , and dandled him in his arms , praying over him the while , and the women joined in her lament - making as though their tears were for patroclus , but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows . the elders of the aetolians besought meleager ; they sent the chiefest of their priests , and begged him to come out and help them , promising him a great reward . they bade him choose fifty plough - gates , the most fertile in the plain of calydon , the one - half vineyard and the other open plough - land . the old warrior oeneus implored him , standing at the threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication . his sisters and his mother herself besought him sore , but he the more refused them ; those of his 
