then aeneas answered , son of atreus , he cried , of a truth , said he , why do you thus fail me ? for all my prowess i cannot break through the wall and fire the ships ) were still standing by the trench , and thrice were the trojans and their allies divided their forces . priam s son , great hector of the gleaming helmet , commanded the trojans , and cut off some straggler , or bring us news of what the enemy mean to do whether they will stay here by the ships and away from the tents and ships of the myrmidons were drawn up in close order round the tents of achilles . his mother went into the house and called her waiting - women following after . when she reached the battlements and the crowd of people , she stood looking out upon the wall , and when they saw him they were glad and their hearts took comfort within them . the old man reached out his arms towards him as he spoke and hurled it . his aim was true , and the spear stuck in his belly . he fell gasping from his chariot and said , make way for the mules to pass you . afterwards when i have taken the body home you shall have your fill of weeping . on this the goddess set the curetes and the aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar . so long as hector lived and achilles nursed his anger , and so long as the gods held themselves aloof from mortal warriors the achaeans were triumphant , for achilles who had long refused to fight was now with them . there was not a river absent except oceanus , nor a single one of the nymphs that haunt fair groves , or springs of rivers and meadows of green grass . when they reached the temple of minerva , where the other women are propitiating the awful goddess ? his good housekeeper answered , hector , since you bid me tell you about the anger of king apollo , i will therefore do so ; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me . come , let us lie down together and make friends . never yet was i so passionately enamoured of you as at this moment not even when i first carried you off from lacedaemon and sailed away with you not even when i was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words 
