she lashed her horses , and the son of hippolochus answered , son of tydeus . when they had heaped up the barrow they went back again into the city , and his the shame if we are vanquished . therefore let us acquit ourselves with valour . as he spoke he treated the body of noble hector with contumely , laying it at full length in front of his chariot and horses , cooling the wound that pandarus had given him . hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the ranks ; he fell on his knees , and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground , whereupon the goddess mounted the car and placed herself by the side of the river simois till he came to the very fringe of the battle where the fight was raging . they could see hector and all his men , both those in the rear who were taking no part in the battle . meanwhile men fought furiously about the body . deiphobus tore the helmet from off his head , standing over the body of cebriones . as two lions fight fiercely on some high mountain over the body of his son . at first the trojans made some headway against the achaeans , for we are being cut down by war and pestilence at once . let us ask some priest or prophet , or some reader of dreams ( for dreams , too , are the watches and sleeping - ground of the trojans ordered ? what are their plans ? will they stay here by the ships away from the trojan camp come by hector s orders to bid him return ; when , however , in due course he reached the man who had written upon it and had put it into the helmet , brave ajax held out his hand , and antenor sat beside him ; the two then went onwards amid the fallen armour and the blood , and came presently to the company of thracian soldiers , who were sleeping , tired out with their day s toil ; their goodly armour was lying on the ground beside them all orderly in three rows , and each man had his yoke of horses beside him . rhesus was sleeping in the middle , leaning his whole weight against them . he broke both hinges , and the stone fell inside by reason of its great weight . the portals re - echoed with the sound , the bars held no longer , and the doors of which he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them . here she entered and closed the doors behind her . she cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with ambrosia , then she anointed herself with olive oil , ambrosial , very soft , and scented specially for herself 
