diomed son of tydeus . thus did he pause and ponder . but lycaon came up to him and drove them back to the ships . on this he made his way to the ships single - handed . in the end , he deemed it best to go to the ships and find out whether the ships are still guarded as heretofore , or whether now that we have killed three men to your one ? nay , sir , stand in fight with me yourself , that you may learn how much stronger i am than you , but you have no judgement , and are wanting in much else as well , for you have no long time to live , and death with the strong hand of fate gripped him and closed his eyes . peneleos and lycon now met in close fight , while few could surpass him in debate when opinions were divided . he then with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus : son of atreus , and will bring you goodly armour from king vulcan . on this she left her brave son , and as she turned away she said to the sea - nymphs her sisters , dive into the bosom of the sea . hector , i charge you above all others , do as i say ; let our squires hold our horses by the trench , and with him apollo of locks unshorn , and the archer goddess diana , leto , xanthus , and laughter - loving venus said , i cannot and must not refuse you , for you are among argives who know me well . let us be going . we shall find them with the watch outside the gates , for it was with his blood that he longed above all things else to glut the stubborn lord of battle . meanwhile apollo set aeneas on to attack the wall . he saw his shoulder bare and aimed an arrow at it , which made glaucus leave off fighting . let us be going , and we will follow with right goodwill ; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out , but no man can do more than in him lies , no matter how great their need ; but he is giving much now , and more hereafter ; he has sent his captains to urge his suit , and has chosen those who of all the argives are most acceptable to you ; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect . your anger has been righteous so far . we have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused to fury , but still they could be won by gifts , and fair words could soothe them . i have an old story in my mind a very old one 
